


Adam and Abagail go to St Toms






by Malcolm McLean
	Contents




	Chapter 1: 		Arrival by Water
	Chapter 2. 		Walkouts and waterboards
	Chapter 3.		Letters home
	Chapter 4.		A big fight
	Chapter 5. 		Cecilia tries to get revenge
	Chapter 6.		A midnight feast
	Chapter 7. 		All at sea 
	Chapter 8. 		Half term
	Chapter 9. 		The Marys fall out
	Chapter 10. 	Peace pipes 
	Chapter 11. 	Adam makes a speech
	Chapter 12.	 	In vino veritas
	Chapter 13. 	Busted 
	Chapter 14. 	Another fight, and a plan
	Chapter 15. 	The white stag
	Chapter 16. 	Mandy gets into trouble again
	Chapter 17. 	The term ends

Chapter 1: Arrival by Water

The floor of the train suddenly slipped away from him, and Adam put out his hands to save himself from falling. Too late. He landed heavily on the corridor between the seats, spilling the cup of coffee in his hand. There was a murmur, then a ripple of laughter throughout the carriage.

"I thought it was a train crash." said Adam, picking himself up.

"Honestly," said Abagail, "Just a little bump in the tracks. Can't you do anything properly? We've no money for another coffee."

"Sorry, Abbey" said Adam, apologetically, "I really couldn't help myself".

The train went into a long tunnel, causing pressure on the two children's ears. Conversation became difficult for a moment.

"I just hope there's no St Tom's people in this carriage" said Abagail, "you'll have embarrassed us before we start".

"First years start a day later, so they'd have to be first years as well" said Adam. "I couldn't spot any on the way to the buffet car".

Adam and Abagail were on their way to St Tom's, a school in the Hebrides, from their home in London. It had been a long journey. Their mother and her boyfriend, Alex, had seen them off at Euston station. The sandwiches had long since been eaten and the flask of orange juice drank. Reluctantly, feeling thirsty after six hours, Abagail had decided to spend a little money and sent Adam to the buffet car for a coffee, which was now spilt over the carriage floor. 

They had set off in the early hours of the morning, now it was beginning to get dark.
"It gets dark sooner, here in Scotland" explained Adam, "It can't be long now. Daddy should be back from work".
	Their father was not allowed to see them unsupervised, because of some issues involving the police and their mother. Adam and Abagail weren't even meant to call him without permission, although they sometimes did, but never when he would still be at work. He had separated from their mother two years ago, and the divorce had come through last year. Their mother had then invited Alex to stay at the family home. Handsome, and a rich management consultant, the children had first taken to Alex. However after he had been with their mother a few months the treats and gifts of money gradually stopped. Adam began to argue with him, always over nothing, like whether people watched Formula One racing (Alex was a big fan) only for the crashes, or whether Adam was old enough for his own tube pass. Abagail had become silent, hardly talking to him, slamming the door of her bedroom as soon as she decently could after coming home and then spending all evening on the Internet chatting to online friends.
	Eventually Mummy had come in, saying, "We've got good news for you, darlings. Your father and I have decided that we've got enough money, when you leave primary school, to send you both to prep school." The original plan had been to send them to separate schools, but Adam and Abagail begged and begged. However Alex said that the only decent co-ed schools were too expensive. Eventually Daddy had insisted on St Tom's. "It's not a prep school," he explained, "it's a small monastic school that goes all the way through to eighteen. It takes boys and girls. I think you'll be happy there."

	"Daddy, is that you?" said Abagail, "I just hope the train doesn't go into another tunnel and cut us off. We're nearly on our way to St Tom's, the school you chose for us".
	"Do you have permission to phone?" asked the low, male voice at the other end.
	"No, Daddy", said Abagail, "but since we're going to St Tom's no-one's there to check up on us, at least until the end of term. Mummy can't check to see if your number is on my phone. In fact we can phone you every day".
	"Very well," said the voice, "I wish you all the best. I hope you'll like St Tom's. I think it's the best solution all round. But as for phoning me every day, you're welcome if you can, but I think you might find it harder than you imagine."
	"Daddy", said Adam, "can't we be with you instead of going to boarding school?"
	"I'm sorry," the voice was firm, "some time that may be possible, but not for the foreseeable future. St Tom's is the school I chose for you, but I can't afford it myself. We're relying on your mother and Alex for the bulk of the fees. Don't disappoint me, my darlings, and don't let me down. St Tom's is the best place for you now, believe me. Goodbye for now, and don't rock the boat."
	He rang off.

"That's that," said Adam, "at least we've going where Daddy has sent us, rather than some school Alex has chosen."
"At least we're away from Alex" said Abagail, "I hate him, I really do."

	The train came to a stop beside a small Scottish village. It was completely unlike London. A deep loch cut into the landscape. There was a street with a some shops, including a small Tesco's supermarket, and a few cars parked in the road. There was no moving traffic. The platform opened straight onto the road, with no ticket barrier or visible staff. Adam and Abagail hauled their trunks out of the train, and stood on the platform. The train pulled away. It would call at every small Scottish station on its route round the West coast.
	"We've got to get the ferry" said Adam, "I can't see a ferry terminal"
	"You're think of something like when we went to Belgium," said Abagail, "that boat's the ferry."
	So it proved. A jetty led from the bottom of the road to the loch, and a small motorboat, big enough to hold a single car or maybe a dozen people, was tethered to it. Adam and Abagail borrowed a trolley from the station and trundled their luggage to it. Unlike in London, there was no need to guard the bags.
	The boatman was a gruff old man, with a greying beard and a thick Scottish accent.
"You're for St Tom's, I see", said the boatman, "Aye, we've brought many over, now and yesterday. I think you be the last."
	"How much is the fare, sir?" asked Adam. He knew already, but it seemed the only thing to say.
	"Six pounds, always six pounds" said the man, "Aye, you've given me another journey, taking the last train. I could have fitted you on with the last".
	"We've come from London", said Adam.
	"I can tell from your manner O' speaking. Brother and sister, are you?"
	"Yes sir," said Adam, "we're twins."
Adam slipped the coins into the boatman's hand, and the motorboat pulled away, into the loch.
	"We've GPS and radar, now" explained the boatman, "but previously I didn't do night sailings to the island. Too dangerous. You'd have had to have waited until morning. There's some still won't go to the island by night."
	"Why ever not?" asked Abagail.
	"Ghosts", said the boatman, "it's an old monastery, recently restored. But whilst it was in ruins, people still saw lights on the island. The monks, they say, wanted revenge for when their abbey was destroyed at the Reformation. Most of them gave up their orders and took wives, but some refused to abandon the island and were hanged".
	"Oh, I've heard about that", said Abagail, "Henry VIII and the dissolution of the monasteries".
	"This was no Henry VIII" said the boatman, "this is Scotland. On a clear day, just to the South and West, you can see Ireland. Hate runs deep in these parts of the world."
	"Are you Catholic?" asked Abagail.
	"Now, young lady, mind your own business" said the boatman.
	
The island came suddenly into view through the gloom. A cowled figure was stood on the quay, holding a lantern. There was just enough light for the boatman to nudge the boat up to the dock.

	"We've been waiting for you" said the figure, extending a hand, "welcome to St Tom's. I'm brother Dominic. We hope you'll have a pleasant time with us."
	"Thank you, Sir" said Adam.
	"Did you remember to tip the boatman?" asked brother Dominic.
	"No Sir," said Adam, "we paid him his fare".
	"You should always tip the boatman", said brother Dominic. "Too late now, but next time."

They walked up a steep path, and past some ruined arches. The building before them was obviously new, but built with old masonry. The door was wooden and arched, and led to a hallway, someway through there was a large dining room, which could accommodate maybe a hundred people. Eight children, four boys and four girls, were sitting in it, laughing and chatting. They seemed to be first years, dressed in the St Tom's uniform of brown blazer and grey trousers for boys, and light brown dress with straw hats for girls.
	"We are now a complete company," said brother Dominic, "Adam and Abbey are twins, and are the last to arrive, from London.”
	There was a whirl of greetings. James, Albert, an Asian boy called Ibrahim, Sebastian, Mandy, Cecilia, Mary and another Mary. The twins were quite confused.

	"You're probably all feeling a little bit apprehensive" said Brother Dominic, "it was the same for us. I was very apprehensive, on my first day here at the monastery, as a novice. For various reasons, your parents have decided to send you to St Thomas More. For some of you, that's a positive thing, your parents have chosen our school for the many benefits it can provide. For others, not so positive, the reasons are practical or even imposed. You must forget that now. You are here and life is what you make of it, regardless of why you are here."
	"Most boarding schools have bounds. In St Tom's case, I don't really need to tell you the bounds. The whole island is ours. I do ask you to show a bit of common sense round the rocky areas of the coast. Certainly I don't want to see children in the sea, at this time of year. In summer term we allow supervised swimming. What we call the enclosure of the monastery, the monks' living area, is also obviously out of bounds. Particularly to the girls. Sorry to be sexist about it, but that is a Church rule. No girls or women within the enclosure, under any circumstances. Boys only by invitation."
	"That's pretty much all I have to say on bounds. Now you'll be joining in the spiritual life of the monastery. That means daily mass, and most of the offices. Now who knows what we mean by the office?"

A hand went up. It was Mandy. "Is that what monks sing?"

Brother Dominic smiled, "Yes, the offices are the seven daily prayers that monks offer, or Benedictine monks like ourselves sing, every single day. You are expected to join most, but not all of the offices. The idea is to get you into the Benedictine way of life. For most of you, it's something that you then carry forwards into a normal adult life. For a few, it is the start of a vocation as a monk. In fact we hope that some of you will become religious."
	"The important thing is to work hard at your academic studies, because that is what your parents are paying for, and to pray hard, but most importantly to enjoy your time at St Tom's."

A bell rang, and seven other monks, all clad in black habits, drifted into the dining room. 

"We now have dinner, in the Benedictine manner, in silence", said brother Dominic.

A monk mounted a lectern placed to the side of the hall, and began to read. Dinner was served by two older girls, who looked resentful, as thought they were there unwillingly. It was sausages, cabbage, and boiled potatoes. Adam rolled the sausage round dubiously with his fork. It was partly undercooked on the underside. "Can't eat this" he said, softly, to Abagail.
	"Dinner to be held in silence" said brother Dominic.
The monk reading was reading some arcane set of laws about bedding arrangements for monks. "And let the younger monks sleep between more experienced brethren, on sacks or upon straw or whatever the abbot has chosen to provide".
	Adam ate the potatoes, which were hard, the cabbage, and a little bit of the sausage. The monks at the other table seemed unbothered. The other children were pushing food about their plates. Abagail had eaten almost nothing. She was resigned to going very hungry when pudding appeared, tinned peaches, which was at least edible, if tasting slightly of metal and preservatives.
	“Finished you guys?” asked one of the serving girls, of Abagail and Mandy. She took the bowls away without waiting for the reply. “Enjoy it whilst it lasts, food's especially nice, the first day”. She grinned at them. Brother Dominic frowned and she beat a retreat.
  
	After dinner the children got their first view of the dorm. There were two houses, the girls' house and the boys' house. There were only about ten to twelve pupils in each year, hence in first year, five boys and five girls in each dorm. They had obviously been trashed by the previous occupants, bits of plaster were missing and tired strips of sellotape were attached to the bare white walls. The beds were very flimsy, iron-framed affairs, with thin and hard mattresses. However there were duvets. Posters were allowed, but neither Adam nor Abagail had thought to bring any. Abagail bagged the bed next to the window. Adam lost out and got the one nearest the door, which no-one else wanted. The hot tap in the washbasin gave a trickle of tepid water, the cold tap was absolutely freezing. There was no mains supply on the island, it all came from a rooftop tank and you were meant not to drink it. Adam asked about brushing teeth and Brother Dominic just shrugged and said it was OK.

	"The food is horrid" said Cecilia, a short girl with a snub nose, "and have you noticed that the monks are all men? I call that creepy. I want out of here. I'm going to call my parents and ask to go home."
	"Cecilia," said Abagail, "you've only been here maybe four hours. Don't you think it's a bit early to give up on St Tom's already?"
	"The thing is" said Cecilia, "my mother didn't want me to come here. But my father insisted that St Tom's was the place for a good Catholic education. I said I'd try it, and I made her promise that if I didn't like it I could come back immediately. Well I've seen it, and I've seen enough to know its a dump. I'm calling it quits".
	She produced an extremely small and elegant mobile phone, and began to call out. 
	"No signal" she said crossly, "of course, silly me, there probably isn't one, on this island in the middle of nowhere. Where can I get a landline?".
	"In the abbot's office?" suggested Abagail. "Cecilia, I think there isn't one". 
	"We're trapped. This is my rights which are being violated" said Cecilia.
	"Oh just shut up" said one of the Marys. This was the tall blonde Mary, the other one was short and plump and with dark hair. "I think we all wish we could just go, but it's not going to happen. You're just upsetting everyone".
	"I don't like it here either, but I don't want to go home" said Abagail, then wondered if she had let on too much.

	A bell rang, and the whole school, some one hundred boys and girls, assembled in the chapel. The building was lit with candlelight, and psalms were sung in Latin. The first formers could hardly understand a word, but they could follow the Latin phrases from the printed cards they were given. “Deus in adjudorium meum intende”, it began, and followed on from there, lines sung alternately by congregation and cantor. The monks somehow gave each line an emphasis towards its end. This was Compline, the last office of the day. Adam felt his heart overawed by the beauty of the service. "Maybe I should be a monk" he thought to himself. Considerations of food drifted away. "I want to be at St Tom's" he told himself.

	There was a buzz of excitement for the first night in the dorm. None of the other boys except for Ibrahim, who had been to a prep school in Pakistan from the age of eight, had ever spent a night away from home before. There was a bit of a fight for the washbasin. "You're spitting toothpaste around, Adam" complained James. "That's how I clean my teeth at home" protested Adam, "Well, you're not at home now".
	Brother Dominic ordered lights out, and ten minutes later the end to talking. Adam was too excited to go to sleep, and the mattress was hard and uncomfortable. "I should say some prayers" he thought, but couldn't. Everyone was silent, in obedience to Br Dominic's order, but Adam could sense from the breathing that no-one else was asleep either.
	After what seemed like an age there was a noise at the door. Adam turned his head from the pillow, but it was too dark to see anything. There was a sudden commotion, and boys' and girls' voices. Hands seized him through the duvet.

"Hey", Adam struggled to free himself.
"Shut up". A punch landed on his chest, not enough to wind him, but hard enough to hurt.
Someone shone a torch, and there was a bit of light. Adam's hand were pinned behind his back by two attractive, freckle-faced girls. A rather lanky boy tied him with a piece of rope. Then a blindfold  was placed over Adam's head. Though he couldn't see exactly what was going on, it was obvious that the same was happening to the other members of the dorm.
	He was frogmarched in bare feet and pajamas out of the dorm, down some stairs. The breath of fresh air into his nostrils and the coldness and roughness underfoot told him he was outside. There was a yelp as one of the boys behind was struck.
	“Serves you right”, Adam heard form a few paces behind. It was a older girl's voice, in an American accent. 
	They were led a distance of several hundred paces, and then told to stop. Most of the abductors then left, though, still blindfolded and pinned, Adam couldn't tell exactly how many were left to guard the prisoners. A few minutes later, another party came back. The girls, Adam guessed.

"You first" a boy ordered someone. There was a splash, as if of someone falling into water. Then more splashing, and some loud moans. It was James.
"You next", the same boy ordered. The boy next to Adam appeared to move, then there was a soft plop as he entered the water.
"Now you", it was Adam's turn to be driven forward. He felt apprehension tug at the pit of his stomach. "We initiate you as a member of St Tom's, by risking death by drowning" intoned one of the captors. Adam was impelled forwards. Then the ground felt springy under his feet. "Keep moving" ordered a captor.
	Suddenly the ground under his feet gave way, Adam tripped awkwardly, and did a bellyflop into cold water. The first sensation was one of ice cold swiftly making its way into every part of his body. Then a hand held his head under the water, and a sudden calm came over him. He couldn't stabilise himself because his arms were still pinned, but he kicked out strongly with his feet. "Mustn't breathe" he thought, "surely they won't actually drown me". Just at the point where his lungs were about to give out, someone yanked him out of the water. He took a deep breath, and was pushed down again. This time he breathed some water. He coughed and was pulled up again, then dragged out of the sea altogether. He coughed and spluttered for a few minutes like a beached fish, then the emergency of choking was replaced by the realisation that he was wet and intensely cold.
	From the sounds of the cries the girls were obviously being dunked next. Two captors then untied his hands, but kept hold of him. With no fight left in him, Adam didn't struggle. Then, laughing, their tormentors ran away. Adam pushed the blindfold off. The entire first form was standing on the beach by the jetty, in wet nightclothes. A plank attached to the jetty itself showed where they had been walked into the sea. The water was about waist deep at that point.
	"Initiation rituals" said Sebastian, "my father warned me about those"
	"I though that sort of thing had been abolished" said Adam.
	"Obviously not" said Sebastian.
	"I'm freezing," said Abagail, "Can you boys just get us back to the dorm, instead of standing about discussing things?".
	
	The boys' dorm was relatively easy to sneak back into. There was essentially no risk of any strangers being on the island, and the door to the house was left unlocked. So it was a simple matter of opening the door without making any noise, which could be achieved by placing a wet pajama over the handle to muffle the sound of the mechanism being turned. The girl's was more difficult since their door was locked from the outside. However there was a fire escape. This was alarmed, but a window led onto it, from Abagail's bed, which was not. The problem was that the opening part of the window wasn't large enough to allow egress.
	Sebastian and James had a natural sense of what to do. First they went back to the boys' dorm and obtained a torch. Then they could see what they were doing. It emerged that the lower pane of glass in Abagail's window was held in only by nails. Someone had taken out all the putty. The nails could be twisted by hand, and the pane of glass removed. Someone had used that route before. The five girls filed back into the dorm, one by one through the window. Then holding the glass at an angle James passed it though to Abagail, who replaced it. It was a two person job, but otherwise a perfectly serviceable entrance and exit. "Just make sure you don't break the pane, old girl" warned Sebastian.
	The girls safely home, boys stripped naked as soon as they returned to the dorm. It was a relief to get the clammy clothes from their skin. They placed the wet pajamas over the radiator and dried themselves with towels.
	The door burst open and light flooded in. Adam dropped his torch. It was brother Dominic.
"What time is this?" he asked. The boys stood still, clutching towels to their private parts. "About three O'Clock in the morning. So what is all this noise?" No-one answered. "Have you been swimming in the sea?" the brother persisted.
	"Sir," said Adam, "we were pushed in."
	Brother Dominic frowned. "I see, and how did you come to be by the seaside, so that someone could push you in."
	"It wasn't that, Sir", interrupted James, "we went swimming." He gave a gentle kick to the back of Adam's leg.
	"So, that wasn't the truth, was it Adam? You were lying to get another boy into trouble."
	Adam looked at the floor. "Yes, Sir" he stammered.
	"Now you have been at St Tom's for less than a day" said brother Dominic, "and already school rules have been broken. I am very disappointed. Boys cannot be expected to do their work effectively if they are up at three O'Clock at night. And swimming in the sea is not allowed. Particularly, swimming after dark is not allowed and is especially dangerous. So you are all in detention for next evening. Adam, come here."
	Adam began to shake uncontrollably.
	"We have an additional punishment for you. You report to Father Abbot half an hour before Matins, in gym kit. Then you run round the island. If you do not complete the run within set time, you run round an additional two times. Now I want to see everybody dried off, in bed within five minutes, and no more noise from this dorm."
	He left.

	"That was unfair" Adam complained.
	"You don't sneak" James rounded on him furiously. "Adam, you'll get this dorm into trouble. Tomorrow they'll know that someone has been sneaking on them."
	"Five minutes" called brother Dominic, from the landing.
	Thinking angry thoughts, Adam pulled the duvet over his head and buried his face in the meagre mattress. He was still thinking, and had not a moment's sleep, when the bell rang for morning.

	Meanwhile the girls in Abagail's dorm were holding a council of war.
	"We've got to get revenge" said Abagail, "or we'll be treated like this all our time at St Tom's."
	"Like, how?" asked blonde Mary.
	"I hate them", said Cecilia, "when I tell my mother about this, I'm straight out of this school"
	"Well we don't exactly all have such loving mummies" snapped Abagail, "I've got to stay, and you're staying here, whether you think you will or not. We've got to get revenge."
	"It's easy to say that, Abbey", said blonde Mary, "but how exactly are you going to do it".
	"Just push some of them in back?" suggested Mandy.
	"We're first years," commented short Mary, wryly, "the lowest of the low. They're bigger than us, and there are more of them. We're not exactly going to get one of them out of bed, tied up, and down to the sea, are we. Be realistic."
	"So we need something cleverer" insisted Abagail, "there got to be a way of getting even. Just think."
	"Do we even know who did it?" asked Cecilia.
	"Yes" said Abagail, "there was a girl with an American accent who seemed to be taking the lead. I don't know her name, but I know which one she is."
	"But wasn't it" said blonde Mary, "like all the school ganging up on us first years?"
	"Yes," said Abagail, "but if we single out one it's easier to get revenge. I know what we'll do already. She's American, so waterboarding"
	"Waterboarding?" asked Mandy.
	"I've read about it. It was a technique used by the American CIA on terrorist prisoners. You tie someone to a board and tip them up. Then you place a wet cloth over their face, and dribble water over it. It's perfectly safe, but it feels like they're going to drown. That's what we're going to do to that American girl. We're going to waterboard her."
	"Abbey" said blonde Mary, shaking her head, "you never will."
	"You want a bet?" said Abagail. "That American girl will be waterboarded. Trust me. All I need is an agreement from you girls that we will stick together."
	"Agreed" all girls said at once, and put their hands together.
	Abagail was thinking furiously. The skeleton of a plan was beginning to form in her mind.  
	"I think I've got it" she said at last, "we just need to sleep on it, and I'll start the ball rolling tomorrow morning".
	With that the girls went back to bed, and soon fell into a deep sleep.

"I'm telling you, you should have banned this, years ago. One of the children sometime soon will end up drowned."
	Brother Dominic was engaged in a furious debate with Father Abbot.
"Relax", the rather overweight abbot leaned back in his comfortable armchair. "These are little kids, and strapping sixth formers dipping them in. All of whom have done their life-saving. And the sea is safe round the jetty. I don't see any danger."
	"It's brutal, and it brutalises them. Adam, now we've got a really sensitive kid there. I could see he was upset. Father Abbot, it's time to stop it."
	"Stop the traditions of St Tom's?" the abbot shook his head, "there are some things that it's difficult to change. The older boys would never forgive me if I did. Besides, don't think, brother Dominic, that you can just legislate brutality away, by whim of the Abbot. Believe me, if we ban initiation ceremonies, you will see much more bullying come out, in a nastier, more insidious form. It's a constant."
	"Well, I've put the first year boys into detention for you, and Adam on a punishment run." said brother Dominic.
 	"Adam, what did he do?"
	"Tried to blame the other years."
	"Has he got problems, or did he not know?" asked the abbot.
	"I think it was both, father. As I said, he's very sensitive. One to watch."
	"Very clever as well, I hear"
	"Indeed, his entrance paper showed the most promise." brother Dominic paused "If you're going to allow this sort of thing I'm not sure St Tom's is really right for him."
	"His parents and I decide that." said Father Abbot. "Anyway, we've had our work cut out tonight. Let's get some sleep."
	"Oh, and brother Dominic", the abbot called back.
	"Yes?" said brother Dominic.
	"Obedience, brother Dominic, obedience. It's the hardest rule you know".
	Brother Dominic smiled, and returned to the house.


	
Chapter 2. Walkouts and waterboards

	"I need to use the damned shower, I'll be late"
	"Can't help that, I'm not going on a punishment run." said James, luxuriating with shower gel in the stream of water that came from their solitary sprinkler.
	"Do a strip wash, instead" suggested Albert.
	"Brother Dominic said we have to have a shower" said Adam.
	"Brother Dominic, brother Dominic, you're afraid of brother Dominic, aren't you" taunted James.
	"Give me that bloody shower", Adam was suddenly transported with rage, and grabbed at the naked boy in the shower.
	James responded with a punch, which caught Adam in the face. "You want to start a fight. I can beat you Adam." he threatened, squaring up for another punch.
	Adam shrank back.
	"Wars between brothers are the most vicious of wars" interjected Sebastian.
	"Where did you hear that?" asked Ibrahim.
	"I just made it up" said Sebastian. "Come on James, Adam's going to be late for his punishment run. You'd want a bit more consideration if it was yours".
	"You have it then, the water's gone cold anyway."
	So it proved, but at least Adam had a shower. He changed quickly into white gym shorts and top, and ran to Father Abbot's office, just in time.

	"First years get fifteen minutes to complete the circuit of the island." explained Father Abbot. "You'll have to run hard to make the time, but pace yourself. Don't run too fast at the start and have no energy for the steep bits later on. If you don't make the time you do two more circuits." he patted him on the back, and Adam was off.
	The circuit was a path that led all the way round the edge of the island. It was fairly narrow, steep in places. The view was spectacular, with rolling breakers crashing onto a largely rocky shoreline, with one or two sandy beaches. Seabirds soared above, calling to each other and engaging in petty, seabirdy disputes. About halfway Adam developed a stitch. He longed to stop, but daredn't, and kept his legs pumping. It was deeply cold, and his breath began to hurt. He could see condensation each time he exhaled, trailing away from him like smoke from an old-fashioned steam train. At last the main monastery building came back to view. There was a group of about ten sixth-formers, checking their watches and looking disappointed.
	"Twelve" said Father Abbot, "that's surprisingly good."

	Adam was alone in the dorm as he went back to change into normal uniform. He noticed a dampness about Ibrahim's bed, and wondered if the boy had inserted his wet body under the bedclothes after returning from the sea. Then he smelt a faint unpleasant smell and realised he hadn't. Ibrahim had wet the bed, and Sebastian had wet his also. Adam wondered if he should scrub James' toothbrush in the mess, then decided against it. He changed quickly, and just made the chapel in time for morning Mass.
	Breakfast immediately followed Mass, and was cold and lumpy porridge.
	"I like sugar on it" complained Adam, "where is the sugar"
	"This is Scotland" said Sebastian, "no true Scotsman has sugar on his porridge. Only salt"
	"My father is Scottish" piped up Albert, "and he likes sugar on his porridge"
	"Then he's not a true Scotsman" said Sebastian.
	"How do you know he's not a true Scotsman?" asked Albert.
	"Because he likes sugar on his porridge"

	Adam reluctantly smeared a layer of salt on the cold, congealed porridge. At home he used to have cream and treacle, or even honey, on the rare occasions when they had porridge. He was getting used to the idea that at St Tom's you ate food you didn't like. Or went hungry. That was about the choice of it.
	"I've checked the menu for tomorrow" said Sebastian, "gentlemen, it's snail porridge".
	"Snail porridge?" said James, "that's disgusting."
	"On the contrary" said Sebastian, "we will have a gourmet delight. I've had it, at the Fat Duck."
	"The Fat Duck?" 
	"It's the best restaurant in England".

	The girls, meanwhile, had fallen to the inevitable, "what does your father do?". It emerged that blonde Mary's parents were both people in the film industry, a famous actor and a famous actress, although Abagail had never heard of them. They were separated and both living with other  film industry types, and they spent a lot of their time working in the United States. Her mother and father each had a home in England, another in California, and her father owned a villa in the Canaries. Her mother had been brought up in a council house in Liverpool, however, and made it to the top through beauty and talent.
	"That's where she gets her looks"  thought Abagail.
	Short Mary's father was a doctor. Also divorced, her mother didn't work and seemed to live entirely on alimony payments. She spent fifty percent of her time with her mother and fifty percent with her father. The agreement had started to cause difficulties with schooling when her parents moved apart, and so they agreed to send her to St Tom's.
	Then it was Abagail's turn. "My father's a computer programmer" she explained. 
"A computer programmer?" asked short Mary, "that's not professional."
"What's professional?" asked Abagail.
"It's when you're a member of a professional body, which is in control of its own standards. Doctors, lawyers and accountants are professionals. That's why they earn so much."
	"So much?" said blonde Mary, "I suppose it depends what your standards are."
	"He's Microsoft Certified Professional" explained Abagail.
	"That doesn't count. What does your mother do?"
	"She's head of human resources for a management consulting office. Her boyfriend is a consultant".
	"That explains it. So your mother earns more than your father?"
	"I really wouldn't know."
	"My parents certainly aren't professionals," said blonde Mary, "and they don't have salaries."

Cecilia's were the only two who were together. Her father was a partner in a firm of chartered accountants. Unlike the computer programming, that seemed to be acceptable.  Her father was a very devout Catholic, and had insisted that she go to St Tom's.

Mandy kept very quiet. "Go on, Mandy" said Abagail, "what does your father do?"
"I don't have a father" said Mandy.
"Then what does your mother do?" asked Abagail.
"Oh, she doesn't work."
"Investments" said short Mary.
"No, it's not that, we're not rich."
"Are you on a scholarship, Mandy?" asked blonde Mary, "That's nothing to be ashamed of, you know. My father would be proud of me if I was clever enough to win a scholarship."
"Kind of," said Mandy, "it's paid for by the local authority."
"By the local authority?"
"My Mum's in prison and I'm in care." Mandy blurted out, "you might as well know. You'll find out sooner or later. All you rich people. I was no good in the children's home so they sent me here."
"Don't worry Mandy," said Abagail, "I think St Tom's will be a great opportunity for you."
"That's just the patronising thing they always say." shouted Mandy, "Like I've got to be so grateful, because I'm going to a private school at taxpayers' expense. It's cheaper here, do you realise that, than in a residential home? But I am glad I'm here, believe you me. You think cold porridge for breakfast is hard, I've had much worse than cold porridge."
	"Oh, like it's easy for us" said Abagail, "you're not the only one who can tell a sob story, you know."
	"You're lucky," said Mandy, "you've got your bother. Me, I've got no-one".

Matron and the assistant Matron sighed as they saw the salt stained pajama's in the first year dorms. 

"Dunking them in the sea again, I don't know why Father Abbot doesn't do something about it. Like it is obvious who it is, from the wet trousers." said assistant Matron.

"Well these are salt so there's no point drying them." muttered Matron, "and they'll rust out the machine, so we'll have to wash them by hand. And we've got three bed wetters, Sebastian, Ibrahim, and Mandy. I guess that's par for the course".
	She brought out rubber sheets and placed them on the appropriate beds, then covered with a thin layer of absorbent material.
	"You just see, we'll have a crop of colds."

	The two women complained to each other as they tidied away the mess of the adventures of the last night. 
	
	The first year settled fairly easily into lessons. These were taught by the brothers; Latin, science, history, maths, English, music, and religious studies. Adam was surprised by Latin rather than modern language, like French, but brother Dominic explained to him, "There's not much point teaching you French because you might end up with business dealings in Spain, or in Germany, or China. Unless we teach you every language you're only marginally better off with just one. But Latin is fundamental to everything we do. It was, and still is, the language of the Church. It opens up to you the world of history, and not just Roman history. All the medieval and dark age material is in Latin too." 
	As St Tom's was so small and isolated, games were a difficulty. To have had a rugby team with only five or six boys per year would have entailed mixing first years with boys three years older than themselves, which wasn't very practical. However there was a sixth form rugby team. Instead the lower years played squash and five a side football, or five a side netball for the girls. Adam was pretty hopeless at anything involving hand eye coordination and a ball, so he didn't like these games, though he could tolerate them. Abagail also was bored by netball.
	With the exception of games, which were held with second and third years, there were only ten in the class, and always the same ten children. So the monks got to know them very quickly. That was what, mostly, their parents were paying for, personal attention for the slow ones, challenging work for the cleverer ones, with the aim of good, solid academic results. The bell didn't ring for lessons, it rang for offices. Immediately upon hearing the bell each child had to drop what he was doing, be it never so intricate a laboratory experiment, and proceed to the chapel. There the office was sung, half the time in Latin, half the time in English. Then the monks rose promptly from prayer, and it was back to the classrooms to pick up the lesson from where it had left off. Adam wondered why they didn't timetable lessons to coincide with office hours, but they didn't. The academic timetable bore no relation to the monastic day.
	Within literally two days the children had got into the rhythm of this life, with its constant alternation of prayer and study. After supper there was prep, which was done in a special prep room and patrolled by prefects. A prefect couldn't give out a detention or a punishment run, but he could impose an essay or lines, which they were extremely willing to do, if someone was caught talking even one minute after prep was supposed to begin. The first full day, because they were in detention, the first year boys had to stay back for extra prep. It was writing out a summary of Henry VIII's political policies from a history book. However normally there was some free time, which was interrupted by Compline, the last office of the day. Adam particularly liked Compline, maybe because there was free time before it and free time to look forward to after it.

"Submit motions for Junior Calefactory Meeting". Abagail looked at the blackboard with interest. There was a meeting of the entire lower school - minus the sixth form - every Sunday evening. The calefactory was what any other place would have called the common room, and there were two of them in each house, one for prefects, and one for the lesser beings. However "The Junior Calefactory" in the abstract just meant the lower school. The meeting was in fact held in the boys' calefactory because it was bigger.
	There seemed to be no bar to first years submitting motions. Abagail scribbled one on a piece of paper. "This JC considers the use of waterboarding by the American government to constitute torture". Mover, Abagail Newman, seconded, Mary Walker (short Mary). She slipped it into the box, and waited for Sunday.

	Cecilia was getting intensely fed up. After two days it was obvious that there was no way of contacting her mother, and she realised that if she did nothing she would soon end up as an ordinary schoolgirl at St Tom's. Her mother had specifically said that if she hated it, she could come back. She had just never imagined that no phone would be available. Cecilia hated the food and she hated the constant chapel. She didn't really hate lessons (she knew she would have to do them, wherever she went), but she didn't exactly like academic work either. She hated sport. She didn't hate the other girls, oddly enough, she felt rather sorry for them, even blonde Mary, whose glamorous and self-assured surface Cecilia could see through. But most of all, Cecilia hated the discipline. Every moment, it seemed, was timetabled or controlled in some manner, from waking to lights out at the end of the day. Even free time, for practical purposes, had to be taken in the calefactory, where thirty girls jostled for one games console, and the television never showed the programmes she wanted to see, but always what was chosen by the older girls.
	"I've had enough of this dump" she told Mandy, "I'm going. Back to my pet dog Fidelis and my horse Trumpert, and most of all to my dear mother and a proper bed and some decent food. When I tell her about how we were dunked in the water she'll be shocked, I assure you. I'm sure she'll write to Father Abbot to complain, if not to our Member of Parliament. I don't know what my father was thinking in sending me to such a place."
	"You can't just go" protested Mandy. "Do you have permission?"
	"I don't need permission. They can't stop me from going. That's imprisonment and a breach of my rights. I'm just going."
	Mandy was unimpressed. "Well you'd better ask Father Abbot about that."
	"No, next boat in, I'm going"
	"And then what?"
	"On the train, straight back home."
	"Without a ticket?"
	"I'll call my parents and they'll pay for my ticket. Then I'm home." Cecilia was firm. "These things aren't as difficult as you imagine, Mandy.
	Mandy shook her head and went to join the others playing in the yard.

	It was after Vespers, when prep had started, that Cecilia made her move. The motorboat which had ferried them to the island was delivering supplies on the quay. Two monks, brothers Brendan and Peter, were helping to unload the supplies. Cecilia didn't go to the prep room, but concealed herself some way from the jetty. After the last supplies had been unloaded, the brothers shook hands with the boatman, and made their way back to the monastery. Cecilia walked smartly and confidently up to the boat, and sat in the stern end. The boatman didn't even notice her, until he had cast off, and was several hundred yards from the island.
	"So what you be doing, young lady?" asked the boatman.
	"I'm going home" said Cecilia, firmly.
	"Where be your luggage?"
	"Oh, I don't need any luggage. I've enough things at home."
	"So you've permission from father Abbot to leave the island?"
	"No, I don't need permission from anyone." said Cecilia.
	"Young lady," said the boatman, "I've got to take you back."

The prefect had naturally enquired why Cecilia's desk was empty. Thinking quickly, Mandy told him that she had a sore throat - I really don't know where she caught it from - and had gone to the sick bay. This was accepted, and Mandy sat agitated all through prep. "She's actually gone" she thought to herself, half envious, but mainly worried. Mandy had seen many more things in her life than Cecilia, and was more worldly wise. "If they don't let her on that train, anything could happen." she though to herself. Cecilia could be stuck, at night, in a remote village, with no friends to call her own, no money, and no means of support. She thought of going to Father Abbot. That would be the responsible thing to do, but it would be sneaking.
	The children at last folded up their books for prep.

"Abbey", said Mandy, "cover for me."
"Where are you going?"
"On an adventure." she gave Abagail a kiss, and disappeared into the blackness.

Cecilia was pouring her heart out to the boatman.

"I just hate everything about St Tom's. I want to go back home. Please don't take me back to the island."
"I know you want to leave, but I've got no choice. Can't leave a young girl wandering round Scotland on her own."
He marched her up to Father Abbot's office, then waited outside whilst the crying, but still defiant girl argued it out with the head of St Tom's.

Meanwhile Mandy, seeing the unattended boat moored at the jetty, slipped into it. She arranged some tarpaulins around herself, and made herself very small.
	The boatman eventually returned, and cast off. Something didn't seem quite right. He saw a movement in the stern of the vessel that didn't seem to be caused by the wind. After a brief search with a torch, he uncovered Mandy.
 	"Another young lass! Where do you think you're going, young lady."
	"On an adventure. OK, caught. Here's your fee."
	Mandy proffered a single coin.
	"Oh, I remember you, young lady" said the boatman. "So when are you returning?"
	"When can you do? After midnight?"
	"After midnight it is, aye, and I drop you off on the other side of the island."

They reached the small village on the other side of the water. Mandy had a frustrating time asking after Cecilia. No one had seen her at all.
	"The train only stops for dropping off at this time of night", explained a villager, "pick ups are early in the morning. So your friend couldn't have got the train. If a schoolgirl was wandering round the village, someone would have noticed. So the only options are she went into someone's car pretty sharpish, or she didn't come here."
	That wasn't comforting. Eventually Mandy had to admit defeat, and returned to the boatman.

"I have no more money" she said apologetically, "how can I pay you?"
"You'll find a way to pay me" said the boatman, and cast off for the island.

Father Abbot was distinctly unimpressed by Cecilia's walkout.

"You have inconvenienced the boatman, and severely embarrassed the school" he said to Cecilia. "What do you have to say for yourself?"

"I hate it here and I want to leave." said Cecilia.

"Cecilia", said Father Abbot, "you have only been here two days. That is hardly fair to St Tom's."
"Two days is enough to know I hate everything about it" insisted Cecilia, "I'm so unhappy here, I could cry. Just get me out, get me out before I kill myself. Because that is what I will do, if you imprison me here nay longer."
	"Cecilia," said Father Abbot, "where we are makes a difference. But it is who we are that determines how we feel. Maybe St Tom's is not for you. But we can't tell that on the basis of two days' experience. You'll find that if you move to another school, you will have the same problems. Maybe they present in a different form, because we are stricter here than many establishments, but they will still be there. We build this monastic community on three great principles, stability, obedience, and conversion of life. Now you have stability. It may not appear so at present, but of all the girls in your year you are the most stable. The very fact that you are here, complaining face to face to me, tells me that. But you lack obedience. And you have not turned your life from being self-centred to being other centred. That is why you are unhappy here. And you will be unhappy wherever you are, however concealed it may be. I suggest that particularly you are unhappy at home, and want to assert your independence. Now you have the chance to do that."
	"So I can't leave."
	"I will not allow you to leave St Tom's except at the request of your parents."
	"Then let me phone and ask them to bring me back."
	"I will not allow you to contact your parents by phone, however you may write them a letter."
	"Then the letter goes tomorrow." insisted Celia, "and I'm out of here by Sunday."
	"Deliveries to St Tom's are weekly. However you may write a letter. I would consider very carefully what goes into it, Cecilia. You may come to regard leaving very soon as a failure. Now will you apologise for the embarrassment you have caused us?"
	"No I won't, you apologise for keeping me prisoner here."
	"What does your mother do when you are naughty?"
	"Nothing", said Cecilia
Father Abbot leant over her.
	"Well your mother isn't here any longer", he whispered.

"Father Abbot, this is extremely urgent", it was brother Dominic.
"Cecilia," said Father Abbot, "dismiss."
"Mandy has gone missing." he explained.
"Really missing?" asked Father Abbot.
"I'm afraid so. Abagail tried to cover for her, but basically she's vanished. She wasn't at Compline, which was no big deal, but then Matron missed her for lights out. Abagail has no clue where she is and I had to terrorise her to get round her stupid schoolgirl loyalty. I could tell something was up because she wasn't concentrating at prep. If only I'd put two and two together."
"OK, full alert.” ordered the abbot, “Check the island, then call the coastguard just in case she's ended up in the sea."
"Mandy", Father Abbot thought to himself, "now was that such a good idea?" She was the very first pupil he had taken from local authority care, and he was very unsure about how it would work out. The nightmare possibility suggested itself that she had committed suicide by throwing herself into the sea. No-one from St Tom's had ever done that, but it was a persistent possibility. He said a quick prayer to himself, then picked up the phone to his friend, the boatman.

A chuckle spread over his fat face. No, for all of her problems, Mandy would definitely work out. 

Abagail was woken by Mandy tapping on the window. Gingerly, the girls removed the pane of glass, placing it gently on the soft bed.
"Mandy," said Abagail, "you're back. Matron and Brother Dominic were worried about you."
"I thought I said cover for me?"
"How could I? You weren't there for Compline, or for lights out. I can't work miracles, Mandy" protested Abagail.
"Well I covered for Cecilia"
"And look where that got us. Brother Dominic has been beside himself, with two first years slipping away."
"Abbey, you sneaked."
"Well what could I say. Look, he was kind of panicing."
"Like your brother. I've no time for sneaks. Anyway, get this window back in. I'll catch hell in the morning, thanks to you."

To the relief of Matron and all the monks Mandy was found safe in bed in the morning. She flatly refused to say where she had been. Initially she tried to make out that she had been present all along, and Matron had simply missed her, but it wouldn't wash. She just said, "I got fed up, and sneaked out for a bit."
	Mandy and Cecilia were made to do two laps of punishment runs. Mandy had been beaten often and made to sit in uncomfortable positions for hours on end as a child, so she was hardened to this sort of thing. For Cecilia, however, it was a shock. She'd done exercise before in ballet and horse-riding lessons, but being made to run, when your legs were giving out on you, with fear of further laps if you did not complete in the required time, this was new.
	"Unlike Mandy", she said, "I didn't sneak off. I stood up for myself, because they have no right to keep me here."
	"Oh for goodness sake shut up", said blonde Mary, "you're going home to Mummy. Right, I'll believe it when I see it. What about us, whose Mummies are in the United States? How are we supposed to go home?"
	"Cecilia is just a spoilt brat", said Abagial, "all she thinks about is how miserable she is."
	"I am not a spoilt brat", said Cecilia, "I stand up for myself."
	"Too right. Against Father Abbot." replied Abagail.

Saturday morning was timetabled for lessons, but the afternoons were given over to "activities". Each boy or girl had to do something constructive, but not necessarily academic. There was as wide a range of sports and other hobbies to choose from as such a small school would permit.
	Abagail approached the boys with her plan. "I need a waterboard" she explained.
	"Waterboard, as in wind surfing?" asked James.
	"No, as in torture" Abagail told him.
It was Albert who rooted about on the Internet and finally found instructions. "It's not too difficult to make," he explained, "basically all it is is a stiff board with a block of wood below it to hold it at an incline. Then you need slots for straps or ropes so you can tie your victim in place, head down. You blindfold him, then hold a wet cloth over his face and dribble water on it. Simple, really."
	"Can you make one?" asked Abagail, "I need it for Sunday."
	"Where'd we get the planks?"
	"From the woodwork room, of course" suggested Adam.
	"I can hardly tell brother Peter that I'm making a waterboard."
	"Then don't tell him," said Adam, "just make it. Say you want to roll things down it."
	"Like a pinball machine."
	"That's right, kind of like a pinball machine."
	Sure enough, right on cue Saturday evening Albert came to the Calefactory with a waterboard in tow. He'd even machined holes for the straps using the woodwork drill. The first years draped it with plastic bin bags, and left it in the Calefactory.

Sunday was a free day. No work was permitted. This was a strict rule, no prep, no impositions, no lessons, no organised games. Nothing that had the taint of schoolwork. Mass was at eleven instead of first thing in the morning, and the offices were longer.
	To Adam, suddenly St Tom's was transformed. What had seemed dreary and threatening now seemed to have a golden shadow cast across it. They had the run of the island, and the day stretched endlessly before them. He walked, for pleasure, on the circuit where he had previously ran. Even the food on Sundays was nicer. It was bacon and egg instead of porridge for breakfast, and if the bacon was a bit undercooked he was used to that by now. It was a choice of lemonade or orange juice instead of water for meals. The monks had beer.

	Abagail had found out the name of the American girl by now. She was called Amy. Her parents were from New York and owned a hotdog chain. She was in fifth year, very pretty, and a good netball player. She had a bullying streak which Abagail had observed in the Calefactory. For instance if the windows were closed she'd proclaim "it's too stuffy in here" and open them, even if it was freezing outside. If the windows were open she'd say "it's too cold in here" and close them, even on an nice day. Then she'd leave the Calefactory. She only did this when younger girls only were present, needless to say. Like all bullies she didn't pick on her own size. 

	Like everything on Sunday, attendance at the JC meeting was voluntary. However if you were a boy there was nowhere else as convenient to relax, and if you were a girl the girls' Calefactory was empty.  So in practice almost everybody attended. Abagail noted with satisfaction that Amy was there.
	A fifth year called Sean was chairman. There was a debate about whether to buy some films, then a rather pointless one about which party the JC would support in the forthcoming general election. Since no-one had a vote, and no-one could canvass anyone except the ten adults on the island, this was a real exercise in futility, as well as being totally unimaginative. 
	"Now any two members are entitled to put forward a motion, and we are particularly glad to have, very prompt as it may be, a motion from two first years, Abbey Newman and Mary Walker. 'This JC considers the use of waterboarding by the American government to constitute torture'.  Abbey, I call on you to propose the motion.
	With her nerves forming a tense little knot within her stomach, Abagail rose to her feet. She cut a tiny figure against all the fourth years and fifth years assembled there.
	"Ladies and gentlemen," she said
	"And Mr Chairman" injected Sean.
	"Sorry, Ladies and Gentlemen, and Mr Chairman, we have come to talk to you about the use of a technique called 'waterboarding' by the American government. This is a device that creates in the victim the sensation of being immersed in water, and about to drown. Know that the fear of drowning, of being immersed against your will in a body of water, such as the sea"
	There was sound of something that was half like booing from the older children.
"To be immersed against your will in water," continued Abagail, "is the worst fear, the most terrible fear, that you can inflict on another human person. Because what is our deepest need? Is it the need for love, is it the need for food, or for water? No, it is the need to breathe."
	"Now the Americans I consider to be the vilest people that have ever walked the Earth, because they attack people and countries who are weaker than themselves. Know that the American military currently spend sixty percent of all current arms expenditure. That's right"
	"Point of information," said a tall boy, with raised hand, "the American defence budget has since been cut, and now represents less than forty percent" 
	"I reject points of information based on unverifiable statistics" said Sean, waving him aside.
"Sixty percent", insisted Abagail. "that means that if the Americans were to go to war against the rest of the world, they would win. But they don't. They attack poor and weak countries instead, because they are all fat and too lazy to fight. Except some of the women who primp themselves up with cosmetic surgery. An ugly people, Mr Chairman, and what is more, they don't fight fair. They use torture. Torture on people whose only crime is to be on the other side, as totally prohibited by the Geneva Convention. And why, because they are bullies and they are cowards. All Americans are bullies and cowards, and they eat cheap junk food like hot dogs which is wrecking the environment. Pass this motion, Ladies and Gentlemen, and show those Americans what we think of their waterboarding."
	There was the sound of applause. Abagail found herself breathless and shaking as she sank back into the chair.
	"Well, a very spirited motion from a first year" said Sean, "shall I declare the motion passed, or does anyone wish to reply?"
	Flushed, Amy rose to her feet.
	"I am an American" she said, "and this speech was racist. Except racism doesn't apply to us Americans. Nope, I guess not. We are not wrecking the environment with hotdogs, that was totally irrelevant. If you want to get personal, Abbey, lets make this personal. Personally I lost my brother in the war in Afghanistan. He was not a coward."
	There was a flutter of applause.
	"Never call us Americans cowards. Yes, we have the strongest military in the world. American guts made that military. And we do not attack innocent countries. They attacked us first."
	"Order, order, order" called Sean, at the commotion.
	"Waterboarding is not torture. It is a technique of intensive interrogation. The victim, the so-called victim, knows that he is not drowning. All that happens is that a wet cloth is put over his face. Call that torture? No. And interrogation is not banned under the Geneva convention."
	"OK, let's wrap this up" said Sean, "Mary Walker, now conclude the defence of this motion"

"If interrogation isn't banned under the Geneva convention" said Mary Walker, "then why do they do it off American territory? So that they can't be prosecuted under their own laws, because they know it's illegal."
	"Amy, my father is a doctor. He knows that you would not psychologically survive waterboarding. You talk about a wet cloth, and the 'so-called victim', as though it's just a perfect picnic. You dish it out, but you won't take it yourself. That's why I call you a coward. Would you agree to be waterboarded? Or will you agree that it is torture."

"My brother's commanding officer agreed to be waterboarded. Don't say we Americans are cowards."
"Never mind someone else, would you agree to it?"
"I don't see why not, we Americans ..."
"Well Amy, you're in luck," said Abagail, "we have a waterboard".

Dramatically Albert and Alex pulled the plastic wrappers off the waterboard. Albert had even thought to provide a bowl of cold water.

"Oh cool!"
"Nice one, nice one."
Called the elder children from the crowd

Trapped, Amy looked for a way out.

"Procedural motion", someone shouted ,"Amy be waterboarded."
"For" said Sean, and a forest of hands went up. "carried on a show of hands."

Struggling, Amy was tied to the board. It was tilted forwards. "Not so steep" warned James, "you'll knock her out."
The damp cloth was applied to Amy's face, then water dribbled over it. She made choking noises, then a damp patch appeared over her skirt.
"Still support waterboarding, Amy?", asked one of the senior boys. "Albert, do it again."
The meeting broke up in chaos. Eventually someone untied Amy, but she still lay on the floor. Albert spirited the waterboard back to the woodwork room sharpish, and broke it up.
"Now you know what it feels like to almost drown" called Abagail, at the hysterical Amy.

Brother Dominic was housemaster, and had to discuss the situation with Father Abbot. "You've got to take action", brother Dominic insisted, "we've got a child with severe trauma, nearly a psychological breakdown."
	"What can I do" said Father Abbot. "punishment runs, or expulsion. There's practically nothing in between. Besides, Sean was chairman of that meeting and the person responsible. Sure I'll punish him, but we don't want to lose Sean. And all the others involved as well. It seems the entire JC ganged up on her."
	"It was the first years who made the waterboard" explained brother Dominic.
	"First years? Well any fifth year you lets herself be bullied by a bunch of first years does not have my sympathy." said Father Abbot.
	"Well, she's in trauma now."
	"Kind of poetic. At least our children have established that waterboarding is torture. Put her in the sick bay and see if she recovers. If not she'll have to go back to America." Father Abbot had decided.
	The fifth years and fourth years got an entire week of class detentions for that incident, and Father Abbot gravely addressed the school on the problems of bullying. "I don't want to see it" he explained, "and nor should you permit it. Such is contrary to the Christian virtue of charity. But most importantly, bullies are cowards. If you attack someone who is weaker than yourself, then you diminish yourself, become less of a person. It's always found that the second rank people, the not so popular, the not so academically or sportingly successful, are the ones who are bullies. Let's make St Tom's into a community where bullying is not part of our way of life."

	The first years got off scot free. Albert explained that they had built a waterboard to demonstrate to the JC the cruelties of the procedure, but had never in their wildest imaginings supposed it would be used. But Amy had been so insistent that it was not torture, that the mob had been uncontrollable.
	Abagail and short Mary slapped hands. "But at the end of the day, Abbey", said short Mary, "what have we achieved? We've got back at one of them, but we need revenge on all of the fifth years, and all of the sixth form."
	"Well the fifth years got their week of detentions" said Abagail.
	"I suppose so," said short Mary.
	"I know what you mean” said Abagail, “but you can't have everything perfect. She half-drowned us, so we've half-drowned her. Her fifth year buddies are in detention. And all because of us. I think we can count that a success. We'll get more revenge on the fifth years later. St Tom's is just going to have to accept, we first formers have arrived.” 

It was time for lights out, and for the first time at St Tom's Abagail went to bed with a deep feeling of happiness.




Chapter 3. Letters home

Adam soon realised that their teachers had gone easy on them the first week, to allow the first years to settle in. In the second week, academic difficulty was ramped up, and he soon began to struggle.

	Brother James was the maths master. A West Indian, he retained a very West Indian outlook on life. So he was always smiling and relaxed, until he felt some slight to his authority, when he suddenly launched into attack mode. Everyone, monks and pupils alike, knew him as "Brother Jumbo", though he was always "Brother James" to his face,and in conversations between monks and children.
	"Now who can do a sum like dis?" asked brother Jumbo, putting a long division on the board. All the children slowly raised their hands.
	"Very good", said brother Jumbo, "now like dis?" putting another long division onto the board. The hands went up again, more slowly.
	"Sir", said Adam, "I don't see any difference between that one and that one."
	"Dis one you need do by hand, dis one you can simplify. Now do you see de difference."
	"But Sir," said James, "aren't they both still divisions?"
	"Now don't you be cheeking me. Adam, you understand the difference? This one you can do by hand, this one you must simplify."
	"Yes Sir, I think so sir. I can do both of those long divisions."
	"Very good. Here is the prep. Six long divisions."

He handed out sheets with six multi digit long divisions. Adam had done long division before, at primary school, so was confident when he went into prep. The exercise took him only twenty minutes to do, and he spent the rest of the time composing the first letter home to his mother.

	The next day it was maths again. Brother Jumbo took in the sheets and marked them. Everyone had got five or six correct, except Mandy who had three out of six. Ibrahim had got none right, and Adam had got one. Brother Jumbo was unemotional as he handed the work back.
	"So," he said, "most of you are master of the long division. Except two, maybe three."
At this Adam began to feel tears stinging at the back of his eyes. He had felt that he had got the sums correct, but they had come back wrong. Worse, almost everybody else, including Abagail, had got a relatively high mark. He tried to choke back the tears. The rest of the class looked, and then looked away, embarrassed.
	"As I said," said Brother Jumbo, "most of you are master of the long division, so we need not spend too much time on it. Now fraction, this also you should have learned in the primary schools. Adam, why are you crying?"
	"Come on Adam," said Mandy, "Ibrahim did worse than you."
	Still the tears would not stop. Brother Jumbo continued with the lesson. "Adam," he said, "stay behind one minute".
	"Now Adam," the mathematics master continued, suddenly a lot less West Indian, "I am not angry with you just because you had difficulty with this exercise. You must not cry."
	"Sorry sir", said Adam, through clearing tears.
	"I see you know the basics of long division. You will soon make fewer mistakes. Now dry your eyes and go to your lesson".

The next lesson was science. The teacher was brother Kieran. He was a neat, smooth cheeked man who grew sideburns. He always smelt of aftershave, which gave him a rather un-monkish aura. He decide to have a go at Adam.
	"This diagram is disgusting" he complained, "I expect diagrams in pencil, not in ink. And use a compass if you are drawing the world. Do it again."
	"Yes sir," said Adam, numbly.
	"Now we know that cold air is heavier than hot air, and cold air accumulates at the poles, because the sun's rays have further to travel through the atmosphere to get to the ground"
	"Please Sir?"
	"Yes Adam."
	"The amount of light the parts of the Earth receive from the Sun is the same. So the amount of heating should be the same. Law of conservation of energy like we learned in the first lesson."
	"I suppose so Adam", brother Kieran thought for a minute, "but the amount of radiation reaching the surface is reduced, and the ground acts as a store of heat. Or maybe the total amount of air at the poles is relatively greater. I'll get back to you on that one, Adam. Anyway, what I wanted to say, for the rest of you, was that the cold air is heavier than the hot air, so it moves down the surface of the Earth, creating a wind from the poles to the area around the Equator. Now what do we call these, anyone?"
	"The prevailing winds?" suggested Mandy.
	"Very good".

	"You really had him on the hop there" said blonde Mary, as they moved out of the lesson. "Could you not see he was desperate not to show, like, he didn't have a clue what you were on about?"
	Previous to coming to St Tom's, Adam had considered himself pretty good at almost every subject. Now science seemed to be the only thing he could do. Maths was hopeless, English essays kept coming back with tons of errors, history hardly counted since it was only two periods a week. However the subjects that were really emphasised were Latin, music, and religious studies. Latin Adam found difficult. Music was a basket case, because he had no hand to eye co-ordination. Unlike most of the other children he could not play a musical instrument. Nor could he sing. That left religious studies. But it was strange, almost a non-subject, dealing with feelings one day, passages of scripture the next, and Church history the next. What exactly, Adam wondered, was Father Eugene trying to teach them?

	Cecilia composed a letter to her parents.

'Dear Mummy and Daddy,' it ran,
	'I am most unhappy here at St Tom's and will you please take me away instantly. The food is awful. The other children threw me into the sea at night and Father Abbot made me go on a punishment run when I said I didn't like it here. My legs still are aching. The other girls do not like me.
	Love,
		Cecilia.

Cecilia looked at it for a while. The bit about the other girls not liking her, was it really true? It might irritate Daddy to know that. Better cross it out. That made the letter messy. "No," she thought,
"I need something well argued."

'Dear Mummy and Daddy', she began,
	'I have now been over a week at St Tom's. I consider that long enough to tell you what I like and do not like about the place. My best friend is blonde Mary. She is called that because there is another Mary whose father is a doctor. Her parents are in the film industry.'
	'There is a lot of bullying here. On the first day we were thrown into the sea. It was very cold and I still have a chill. Some of the girls have very bad backgrounds. For instance Mandy is a charity girl. She has no father and her mother is in prison with a drug addiction. She was too badly behaved for a children's home so they had no-where to send her and sent her here. I like her personally but do not feel you would want me mixing with people like that. Abagail and the other Mary (short Mary) are also aggressive. They got the boys to make a waterboard to torture another girl. I am glad it was not me. This is because they do not have loving parents like I do so behave aggressively. Again I don't think you would want me mixing with people like that.
	The food is horrible and when I said I didn't like it here Father Abbot made me go on what they call a "punishment run". You have to run round the island in under fifteen minutes. I made fourteen but my legs are still aching.
	I hate it here and hope that you will agree that the experiment has been a failure and will take me away. Father Abbot said I can leave whenever you say so.
	Please look after Fidelis and Trumpert.  know they will be missing me and this is another reason to go home.

	Your loving daughter,
  			Cecilia.


Cecilia stuffed the letter into an envelope, intending to address and stamp it later. She didn't seal it in case she changed her mind. The letter went on top of her locker in the dorm.
	Now blonde Mary was also writing letters home. She had two to write, and took two envelopes from the school office. Annoyingly, she scribbled her father's Spanish address over one. He was, of course, in the States, making a new film. She saw what she thought was a spare envelope on Cecilia's locker, and decided to pinch it. There was a pink slip of paper inside.

"Cecilia's letter home" thought blonde Mary. Knowing that she shouldn't she decided to read it. "So I'm Cecilia's best friend" she thought to herself with amusement. "News to me." There was even better to come. "Mandy sweetest," said blonde Mary, "read this."
	Mandy got a nasty shock. "The two-faced little bitch" she said to blonde Mary, "that's what she really thinks of me, is it. Thank you for telling me this, Mary."
	Somehow Mandy couldn't cry, though she wanted to so badly. She started her own letter to her mother.

Dear Mummy,
		I know you will be proud of me. I have started my place at St Tom's. It is much better than a children's home, because here I have the chance to learn things instead of just being with other losers and nutcases. I suppose I'm a bit of a loser myself because not all the girls like me, but some do, like blonde Mary. Her parents are rich, like really rich, not just accountants and doctors like most of the girls but really millionaire parents. And she is nice and she likes me. Then Abbey, she likes me but she sneaks a bit. But short Mary doesn't like me being here but I don't care too much because she is not who she thinks she is. There is just one girl who I thought liked me but really hates me, but I don't mind because nobody likes her either. She is spoilt and just says all the time how unhappy she is. The boys they are OK.
	Mummy, I think of you all the time, and how hard it must be for you in prison. Know that I am happy here and look forward to you being out when we can be back together again. I think they might let me stay at St Tom's over Christmas rather than going back to the home.

	Love,
			Mandy. 


The censor at Styal women's prison read the letter, and tore it up. "No contact", he told his colleague. "Someone's finally decided to give a chance to that poor girl". 

"Dear Mummy, I have had waterboarded a girl who was tormenting me. She was an American so I don't care" Adam broke into peals of laughter. "Abbey, you can't send that. Who would believe you? Or if she did, she'd have you pulled out as fast as you can say 'jack rabbit'".
	"Unless Alex told her not to," said Abagail, "he's got too much influence over her. But Adam, I can't say half the things that have happened. You're an embarrassment to me, sneaking and always crying. Mandy accused me of sneaking on her, you realise that, because of you. It rubs off on me. Oh look, I'm sorry if I make you feel inadequate. That's just how I feel. Maybe it was a mistake to come to the same school together."
	"Abbey, don't say that" protested Adam.
	"Just try to be less pathetic, that's all. And don't hang about me all the time."

Abagail composed a short, matter of fact letter to her mother, and then cried herself to sleep that night.

Adam was irritated. He wanted to hit Abagail, but you couldn't hit girls. Not even a sister. "Someday soon she'll need me" he thought to himself, "but she's not always there for me. He went into the chapel to pray. It was empty, of course, when there were no services. Adam found himself going into the chapel more and more often, as a relief from the intensity of the dorm and Calefactory. He never met any of the other boys there, though it was in bounds at all times. He looked at the crucified body of Jesus on the cross. "What does this say to us?" he wondered. "What are we, who don't seem to be able to make ourselves happy in this life?" A thought came to him, "Are you happy now?" "Yes," he replied, "I am."
	Adam rose from prayer. There was another squabble over the games console in the Calefactory. He got out the long division questions from the previous day. Looking through them, he could see where he had gone wrong. Five silly, trivial mistakes. One right answer.
	"Hey Adam" said a prefect, "you're not supposed to do prep during free time. Put it away."
	"Sorry" said Adam.
	"One hundred lines, 'I will not do prep in free time'"
	"You serious?"
	"I'm serious".
There was no prohibition on doing the lines in free time, however, so Adam filled up his time.

"I think he is too sensitive" said Brother Dominic, "there's just no point having someone who cries on the least provocation somewhere like St Tom's."
	"Reluctantly, I'd agree" said brother Jumbo, "he has the makings of a perfectly competent mathematician, but he hasn't been well taught. And it is nowhere near as strong as his science, which shows extraordinary insight for one so young. But he wasn't even bottom of the class, and he was in floods of tears. He won't survive here. You'd best send him home."
	"And Abagail?" said Father Abbot.
	"No problems" said both of the monks.
	"Somehow I find that difficult to believe. They are twins. What would be the effect of removing one of a pair of twins from St Tom's?"
	"I just don't know" said brother Dominic, "does Adam depend on Abagail? Somehow I don't think so. I just don't see it. He's a loner, he depends on himself. Does Abagail depend on him? Maybe in some hidden way. I wouldn't like to say."
	"Well I've had one request to leave the premises from little Miss Cecilia, but in the absence of such a request from Adam I think we'll have to leave it for the time being, don't you think so brothers?" said Father Abbot. "But keep me informed."

Cecilia received a letter back with the next supply boat. It was signed by both her mother and her father. It read.

'Dear Cecilia,
	We are sorry to hear that you are not happy at St Tom's. However remember that the other girls may not have all the advantages that you have, and might be afraid to show their feelings. Care especially for Mandy, she must be feeling very lonely and isolated, as the only one in her position. We are not afraid of you mixing with bad company, remember that you are good company to them.

As for being thrown into the sea, Daddy says that these things happen. The important thing is not to resent them. You may hate it at the time but in future life you will look back on this as a happy time of your life. Mummy however will be writing to Father Abbot to demand an explanation. Be assured that we care for you and will support you in every possible way.

If you really dislike the school you need not stay more than a whole year. We have spent the fees now and would not want to waste them. And your academic work will be coming up.

Daddy hopes for some profit from the new partnership, so there will be lots of presents awaiting you at Christmas. Fidelis and Trumpert are OK, but Fidelis misses you. Hang in my little one (this is Daddy), we love you always.

	Your loving parents,
				Mummy and Daddy
	 
 
"They said I could leave if I disliked it, now they say I have to stay the whole year", said Cecilia, crossly to herself. "And all my arguments have just been dismissed. Not even answered. They've cheated on me all the way through, especially Daddy. Now how am I going to live in a place that I hate?".

Sebastian had written to his parents, "I expect you'll find that the spartan joys of monastic existence are more raved about in your memory than by me." He got a decent letter back, mainly about his father's old school days. It had all changed since then, of course.
	Ibrahim was worried. There were political problems in Pakistan, and his parents, as Christians, were extremely vulnerable. He had been sent to Scotland partly for safety. He tried not to let it show, but every time a new bulletin came on the television involving Pakistan his heart stopped a beat. He also digested websites on the internet. Since they were in Urdu they passed through the St Tom's firewalls unscathed, and he was able to read about rapes and massacres without missing pages.
	"Pray" advised Adam, "just pray hard for your folks".
	"The problem with Pakistan is too much prayer" replied Ibrahim, "if everyone could be atheist the world would be a much better place."
	"But you believe in God" said Adam.
	"Yes, I believe. I said if everyone was atheist the world would be a better place. That's not the same as saying I don't believe in it. I don't want to flick out like a light switch when  I die. But that's just my selfishness."
	"It's not selfish to want salvation" said Adam.
	"How is it not?"
	Adam could find no answer.

Albert wrote a letter describing the waterboard, but pretending it had been just a demonstration, then tore it up and wrote another one full of descriptions of the boats on the jetty and the science labs.
 	James' parents had been through a nasty divorce. His father was a university professor and now living with another woman. His mother received a hefty maintenance award, which his father resented paying. He was always accusing her of spending the money on herself, which wasn't fair. He also accused her of obstructing access arrangements, which was a fair accusation. Eventually he obtained some court order prohibiting her from leaving Wales, and giving him more visiting rights to James. Sending James to St Tom's killed several birds with one stone. First it meant his father now had to pay his share of school fees for him as well as maintenance during the holidays, then it meant that he didn't have the access he had hoped for, since his father was not to see him whilst he was at school. Finally James himself had wanted to go, and his father couldn't exactly stand in the way of that. So he ended up at St Tom's.
	James was beginning to wonder what he had been thinking. In some ways he revelled in his freedom from home, but to be honest, what freedom was there really? The freedom of a small island, and then really only on Sundays. The work was getting him down. He'd imagined that school would be all sneaking out of dorms at night, practical jokes, and fights. In fact it was work, work, work, punctuated by periods of prayer, and the monotony got to him. James was talented academically, but he didn't particularly care for any one subject. He could sing, in fact was under consideration for the choir, but he got almost nothing out of worship. So why had he asked to come to a monastic school? OK, it had to be Catholic because his father was a Catholic, though a non-practising one. His mother was nominal Church of England, so his father insisted on a Catholic school. St Tom's was relatively cheap. He had sat with his mother and a pile of brochures, and chosen it by himself. Because it was by the sea.
	Anyway, he rattled off cheerful letters, almost duplicates, to both his parents. He wasn't going to let his growing doubts show.

"Am I bored" said Adam, next Saturday. The novelty and excitement of the first week had worn off. Amy was back in action, the fears of permanent psychological damage obviously grossly exaggerated. Mandy's escapade was now forgotten, and everyone was fed up with Cecilia. Except Mandy, who was sharpening knives for her, though no-one knew this at the time. There were no "activities" he looked forward to, partly because he didn't like sport. He decided on cross-country running, which was about the only thing he was any good at. They went in a minivan loaded onto the boat to a course on the mainland, so at least it got him off the island for a while. But despite having only one lap, his time was last. Which wasn't unexpected for a first year. 

	“Do woodwork” said Albert, “instead of cross-country”.
	“But I'm good at running” said Adam.
	“But not as good as a dog” said Sebastian, “what's the point in spending all your Saturday running round and round, doing something a dog could do better?”
	“I'm no good at making things” said Adam.
	“Are you better or worse than a dog at woodwork?”
	“Better”
	“Then there you are then. You're better at woodwork than you are at cross country. Do woodwork with Albert.”
	Albert grinned. “You'd be a real help to me Adam, you can always do far more with two than with one.”
	So Adam went to see Br Peter and agreed that henceforth his Saturday activity would be woodwork. 
Chapter 4. A big fight

The next Sunday Abagail, Adam and Albert, using the freedom of the day off, climbed to the highest point on the island. St Tom's had a "rule of three". It was permissible to wander about the island on your own, or in groups of three or more, but not in twos. "Some sort of monastic thing, to prevent close friendships excluding other people" thought Adam. "Three just argue" responded Abagail.
	The rule had the effect that Adam and Abagail found it difficult to snatch time in private together. However Albert was happy to make up the third.
	The sun was shining and they lay on some rocks. The could see all the way round the island, the monastery with its little jetty to the east, and the rockier shore where seabirds dwelt to the west, punctuated with little sandy beaches. The ruins left by the ancient monks were all about, a few stone arches surrendering to the disruptive forces of scrub and brush growing between their stones. There were hardly any trees on the island. The playing field, close by the monastery, stood out as an incongruous square of pure green. All round the coast, like a thin necklace, ran the track where they had to do their punishment runs. Rabbits darted about near them.
	"If only we had some sandwiches" said Adam, "it would be so nice just to have a picnic here".
	"Yes, I'm hungry" said Abagail, "that's the worst thing about this place, the absolutely awful food".
	"And the prep" said Albert.
	"And the bullying fifth years." said Adam.
	"OK," said Abagail, "Food, prep, bullies. All bad. What is good about this place?"
	"No Alex" said Adam.
	"Whose Alex?" asked Albert.
	"Oh, just our mother's horrid boyfriend." said Abagail, "we hate him with a passion, and he hates us also, which is why we were sent away to boarding school. Dear Daddy insisted on St Tom's. You're lucky, Albert, you've got something to look forward to when term ends. We don't."
	She looked at the rabbits. "Could catch one of those and eat it" she said.
	"Funny you should say that," said Albert, "you know we're doing woodwork for our Saturday activity. Anyway, I thought I'd make a boat. Then we could sail it, maybe even escape."
	"OK" said Adam, dubiously.
	"Well, anyway, brother Peter said I didn't have the resources to build a boat. However much time you spent down here in the woodwork room, you'd never complete it, he said. Maybe you can get the sixth form to take you out. They can do sailing. Anyway, he said, what would you do with a boat.  I didn't like to say 'escape' so I said I'd use it for fishing. We discussed what else I could make and I suggested snares for the rabbits. 'That's certainly a realistic project' he told me, 'but unfortunately it is illegal. The wild mammal's protection Act forbids it.' So I'm making a lobster pot."
	"Never had lobster" said Adam.
	"Yes you have, in France, before Mummy and Daddy got divorced" said Abagail, "you ate it and I didn't like it."
	"So will you give us one of these lobsters?" asked Adam.
	"Sure," said Albert, "when I finish the pot"
	"I want a rabbit" said Abagail.
	"It isn't allowed to catch the rabbits" said Albert.
	"Who says?" said Adam.
	"The law, and brother Peter"
	"One law for lobsters, another one for rabbits" said Adam, "you know they boil lobsters alive. I'd call that species discrimination."
	"But rabbits are cute and fluffy whilst lobsters just nip you" said Abagail.
	"You wanted to eat one" retorted Adam.
	"Yes, I'm really hungry" said Abagail, turning lazily over on her stomach. "Not hungry as in empty, hungry as in hungry for something decent, like a solid lump of meat."
	"There you see, we are hungry" said Adam, "children's rights beat animal rights. That law was made for well fed people. It doesn't count for us."
 	"I'm not sure about this, Adam" said Albert.
	"Oh, don't be so wet" said Abagail, "just make a rabbit trap, Albert."
	"What if brother Peter finds out?"
	"He didn't about the waterboard, did he?"
	"That's what I'm worried about. Once bitten"
	"Albert", said Adam, seriously, "we've got to do this. Now we've planned it, you'll never forgive yourself if you funk out. Abbey and I are hungry, you're hungry too, so is everyone. We've got to have some decent solid meat or we'll all go mad. You'll be such a hero."
	"I'll see" said Albert.
	"No, agreed" said Abagail, and held out her hand.
	"Agreed" said Albert, and slapped it.
	"We won't leave you in the lurch" said Abagail, "if brother Peter finds out we'll all three own up to it."

	Rupert was a fifth year. With the other fifth years he had just come out of detention following the incident of Amy's waterboarding. Now he had got to hear that Adam cried easily, and he decided to have some fun.
	"Adam", he said, "come here. I hear you've been crying in lessons."
	Adam looked down, ashamed.
	"At St Tom's we've got a tradition. Crybabies are tossed in a blanket by the fifth form"
	Adam felt the cold chill of fear running over his body.
	"Don't worry, Adam" said Rupert, "I'm warning you because I can protect you from them. I can stop them doing that to you, if only you'll do one little thing in return for me."
	Adam nodded.
	"Bring me a cup of tea tomorrow morning."
	"We're not supposed to drink before communion" protested Adam.
	"Oh don't worry about that" said Rupert, "you wouldn't sneak on me, would you Adam? I know you're not a sneak. I'll protect you from the rest, I promise."
	"OK, thanks Rupert" said Adam.

The next morning Adam got up ten minutes early to make Rupert a pre-Matins cup of tea. Rupert was all sweetness and light.
	"You know Adam", he said, "you and Abbey are really popular with the seniors. She's got real spunk, your sister. And you're obviously an intelligent guy. People respect that. You'll get on with us fifth years."
	Adam was flattered, and didn't know what to say.
	"Just one thing, Adam" said Rupert, "put one sugar in it next time, would you not mind."
	"I thought I agreed to make one cup of tea" thought Adam, but he didn't protest.

He noticed that Rupert took communion as usual that day.

The next day, Adam went to Rupert's room (the fifth years had shared study bedrooms, two to a study) with the second cup of tea.
	"You're late" said Rupert, "come here". With that he cuffed him round the ear. "If you're late next time you'll get it harder. Now dismiss."

The third day Adam made sure that he spat in the tea, mixing a great deal of spittle in carefully, before giving it to Rupert.
	"Rupert, I've got to warn you that you drink this to your destruction" said Adam.
	"You what?" said Rupert
	"The destruction of your immortal soul, and possibly body as well."
	"You're a right one" said Rupert, "look, you care about your soul if you want, I couldn't care about mine. You're going to have such a hard time, Adam."
	However he didn't cuff him that day.

	When Abagail got to hear about this she was furious.
	"It humiliates you and it humiliates me" she said, "Adam, like it or not I am associated with you. You can't let this happen."
	"He's a fifth year," said Adam, "what can I do. Of course I spit in his tea. He's drinking my spit, though he doesn't know it."
	Abagail grinned. "OK, that's a start" she said.
	"He'll get my germs", said Adam
	"But Adam," said Abagail, "you can only give him germs that you've already got. That's the problem. You can't give him anything serious like cholera unless you've got cholera yourself, which you haven't. That's why just spitting in his tea isn't going to do any good."
	"OK, I'll lace it with cyanide"
	"Where would you get cyanide?"
	"From the science lab" said Adam.
	"So you're really going to ask brother Kieran if he's got any cyanide so you can poison Rupert?" asked Abagail, and laughed slightly at the absurdity, "What does cyanide look like, anyway?"
	"I dunno, OK, bleach."
	"The cleaning cupboards are locked."
	"We'll find a way of getting some out".
	"The problem with bleach" said Abagail, "is that they'll find out, and then you'll be expelled. Which leaves me here alone. What you need to do is to use a naturally occurring substance. Then no-one knows that you've done it."
	"OK, so what's a natural poison?" asked Adam.
	"I dunno, something like typhoid or cholera."
	"I heard of someone dying after eating shellfish"
	"Perfect." said Abagail.
	"So how can we make sure we get an infected shellfish?" asked Adam.
  	
	Abagail did a bit of research on the internet.
	"It's crabs" she said, "crab is the most dangerous shellfish to eat if not properly prepared. At the sides of the shell are structures known as “dead man's fingers” which are poisonous if not removed. And there are plenty of crabs on the beach".

	Adam went down to the beach and soon located a small green crab in a rockpool. He fished it out, and smashed it to death with a rock. He then put the carcass in a plastic bag, and hid it under his bed, next to the radiator.
	Rupert was still finding pretexts to cuff him, and still going to communion.

The dead man's fingers were quite easy to recognise. They were filamented, greyish structures clinging to the niches in the corner of the shell. Adam excised them. Fighting back his disgust,  he mashed it up with some water, unboiled and from the rainwater tap, naturally. He then placed the mixture in packet handkerchief and squeezed it, collecting the poisoned juices. He put this in the teacup, then the milk in, making sure that the tea wasn't too hot so that it would sterilise things, but not so cold as to be undrinkable.
	In a few minutes it was ready to give to Rupert.
	"This tea is cold" complain Rupert, after a sip, "and the milk is slightly off. Come here."
He gave him a sharp cuff across the ear. Adam cried in pain.
	"Sorry, Rupert" he cringed, "won't happen next time"
	"It had better not" said Rupert.

After Matins the community immediately had Mass, ranks of uniformed children and the eight monks in their habits crowding out the little chapel. Rupert took communion as usual. A few minutes later he felt a sharp kicking in his stomach. He felt queasier and queasier as he went to his first lesson, which was maths with brother Jumbo.
	"Sir, I feel ill" he complained.
	He felt he ought to be sick, but could not be sick. As he walked out of the classroom, he seriously wondered whether he would make the sick bay.

	Three hours later, as the bell went for Terce, the children heard the chatter of a helicopter overhead. It landed on the playing field and two white coated doctors got out.

	"We've done it", said Adam, to Abagail.

However by evening the helicopter had left, with Rupert still in the sick bay.

	"That will still teach him", said Adam
	"But how does he know it was us? It's no better than spitting in the tea if he doesn't know whose done it." said Abagail
	"Look," said Adam, "we can't say it was a poisonous crab. That's too compromising. But blab it about that I was spitting in his tea, and that's how he got ill."
	"Will do", said Abagail, and before prep had ended the story was all over the school.

"Coffee for you" said a fifth year, a tall youth called Martin, "coffee for you Amy. Oh, you've already had one. I've made an extra. Adam, can you drink up this extra coffee?"
	They were in the boys' calefactory after prep. The room was still buzzing with news of Rupert. Apparently matron had been seriously worried, but the doctors had given him some treatment in time and there was now no danger.
	Adam took the coffee. The fifth years left. A moment later Adam caught his foot on the carpet and tripped, spilling the coffee.
 
	Sean overheard Martin and Amy giggling on their way from the calefactory, and felt an immediate surge of alarm.
	"Are you crazy" he cried, and burst into the calefactory. He almost collapsed in panic when he saw Adam sprawled over the floor.
	"Adam, did you drink it?" he cried, "there's bleach in that coffee!"
	Dazed, Adam shook his head.
	"It just spilt. Thank God, thank God, thank God" Sean was beside himself. After convincing himself that none of the bleached coffee had been ingested, he calmed down. "I'm calling an emergency JC meeting" he said.
	
	All the school from the fifth year down were soon assembled. "Now I've got something to tell you", Sean said, sitting down in the chairman's seat, "people are using poison. If we are not careful we'll soon get to a state where no-one can eat or drink anything without fear that it has been spiked by someone else. We can't live like that. No poisons are to be used, any more, by anybody. I mean that, immediately. Throw them all away. This has got way out of hand. And not a word of this to father Abbott or any of the prefects, anyone outside this room, in fact."
	There was a buzz, and the school filed away. The meeting had taken less than two minutes.

Next day Rupert was still in the sick bay, but was making a good recovery. Adam felt guilty, and vulnerable. He wasn't sure that Sean's admonition would have any effect, and was terribly afraid of further attacks. He wanted some adult, Father Abbott even, involved. But to tell him would be sneaking.
	"However you can't sneak on yourself" thought Adam, "can you?" He decided there and then to go to Father Abbott and make a clean breast of it.

Steeling himself, he knocked at Father Abbott's study door.

"Sir," he said, "it was me who poisoned Rupert"
"This is not the confessional" said Father Abbott, with a smile, "Now how did you do that?"

Adam suddenly felt ashamed, and looked down. "With a crab, Sir"
"A crab?"
"A poisonous crab, mixed up in his tea."

"Adam," said father Abbot, "cases of serious food poisoning are always carefully investigated. In this case the only thing that Rupert had eaten or drunk that the others hadn't was that cup of tea. So the cup was taken away and analysed, and sure enough traces of contamination were found. It is not as easy to commit an undetectable murder as you seem to imagine. And since you were openly boasting about having spat in the tea, it was obvious that the contamination was deliberate, and not from saliva either."
	"So you knew already" said Adam, "why aren't I in prison for it?"
	"I am not in such a hurry to bring criminal charges against my own children" said Father Abbot, "if we'd have known what was going on in time then of course we would have intervened, because of the physical danger you were putting each other in. But in the event Sean handled the case perfectly well, and there was no reason for me to be involved. Are you dissatisfied with the way Sean settled things?"
	"I'm still scared, Sir"
	"We'll that's a fear you're just going to have to live with. You'll have to trust to the good sense and moderation of the other pupils, and of Sean. But I don't think you'll be disappointed."
	"Thank you, Sir"
	"This time, everything has worked out. But you need to consider that you will not always find a way of retaliating against a bully, and you won't always be so lucky in avoiding even more extreme counter-retaliation. Nor is there always be a Sean to protect you. So what will you do then, Adam?"
	"I don't know, Sir"
	"Neither do I, neither does anyone. You'll have to work that one out for yourself. Now please go, and consider what you are doing a bit more carefully in future."
	"Thank you, Sir" said Adam, and began to leave.
	"Oh, and Adam" said Father Abbot
	"Yes?"
	"Maybe it is better if this conversation never happened."


Meanwhile blonde Mary was adjusting to her new life. The first two weeks had been exciting. She was used to international travel, to staying in the homes of the mothers' film star friends, and to a mixture of the luxury of delicate meals prepared by fleets of servants, and the hardship of spending nights in airport departure lounges and lonely hotels. Even the food hadn't been much of a shock. Many times blonde Mary had been offered weird concoctions of lobsters in brandy sauce, or plain lentils by a vegetarian actress, or raw fish on a journey to Japan. Her mother had made her eat them, out of politeness, so she adapted quickly to eating things that she didn't like, and pretending that she enjoyed them.
	However now the monotony was beginning to get her down. Life at St Tom's was all hardship and no luxury. They got up early, prayed, had Mass, had a horrible breakfast, then had lessons all day, punctuated by horrible meals and the offices. Then there was prep all evening, and just a bit of free time, before Compline and lights out at night. "It's no life for a girl like me" thought blonde Mary, "I should be in California, with a mobile phone that works and a television I can watch when I want, and lots of friends. That's what I miss most, real friends like me. These others are not my equals. Abbey, OK, there's something pretty about her, but her father is only a computer programmer. Cecilia is just spoilt. Short Mary, there's nothing about her. As for Mandy, she's just a charity case. It's a real embarrassment. There's no-one like me, no-one I can really make friends with as a equal. Certainly no-one I could possibly invite back to America. What on Earth was Mum thinking about sending me here?"
	She lay on the dorm bed, brushing her long hair with a designer hairbrush that had a peacock embroidered on the back and had cost two hundred dollars.
	"Hey Mary, what are you thinking about?" said Abagail, bursting in.
	"Oh, I think deeply, about lots of things" said blonde Mary, "I was thinking of my dear Mother and all the friends I have in America, and how funny it is, that now the most precious people in my life are you."
	"So who's most precious to you, of us four?" asked Abagail.
	"Well of course you, my dear Abbey." said blonde Mary.
	"Oh come on Mary, you'd say that to anyone" said Abagail, "who do you like, really, amongst us four?"
	"Mandy, she is so clever" said blonde Mary.
	"Mandy?" said Abagail.
	"Yes, Mandy, I admire her. To come from where she's been to where she's at. That must have taken a lot of work. You know how I hate academic work. Especially anything to do with maths or science. Ugh. But Mandy has succeeded in clawing her way up the gutter to be as equals with us. I admire her for it. And particularly I despise the other Mary, for making her feel bad about it. If you consider, really the other Mary has nothing. She's a nobody. Her father's a doctor. That is nothing. A British NHS doctor gets less in a week than a plastic surgeon in America gets for a single operation. They couldn't even afford an apartment in Manhattan."
	"The other Mary is spiteful, isn't she," said Abagail, "and Cecilia is spoilt and going on all the time about how she hates St Tom's. I really hate that. I mean, if you don't like something, don't moan, do something about it. We're going to do something about the food, for instance?"
	"A protest? Abbey, you can't. Father Abbot would never stand for it. Me, I would have complained already if I thought it would do any good. My mother taught me how to read people." blonde Mary told her.
	"No," said Abagail, "I've got the boys to promise to catch a rabbit. We'll have decent food when they do, and you will be invited."
	"Like Elmer Fudd. Two carrots, two turnips, some celery. Chop, chop, chop, chop, chop. Then some salt and pepper. Then catch one rabbit. Hmmm." blonde Mary laughed, "I'll believe this rabbit when I see it."
	"Well don't tell anyone", warned Abagail.
	"To think I'd get excited about a rabbit", said blonde Mary, "life is so much more interesting outside of this high security institution. In California there's this restaurant that doesn't even have a menu. You order what you want, and if they don't have the food in they say sorry Ma'am, and send out a man on a scooter to buy it. Then you get complimentary drinks. If he can't get it, the next meal is free."
	"So why doesn't everyone order elephant's ear burgers?" asked Abagail.
	"Oh that would be disgusting. They don't take clients like that. No, any food you want, you can just have. That's what its like in California."

	Mandy, Cecilia, and short Mary entered from the calefactory.
	"Mary, since when have you needed to brush your hair at night?" asked Mandy.
	"It helps it lie smoothly", explained blonde Mary, "it goes out of position when you sleep on it, and if it's out of position already it gets firmed up like that. Not good."
	"You wouldn't understand, Mandy", said short Mary.
	"Mary will be a film star some day" said Abagail, "I can just see it. Then we'll go into the cinema and see her hair blown up on the big screen, every strand visible, and say, 'I saw her brushing that hair, in our very dorm room'".
	"Oh, I'm going to go into acting" said Cecilia, "or modelling, maybe. Definitely something like that".
	"You're not pretty enough, like Mary" said Mandy.
	"Mandy", said Abagail, "that was obnoxious, and it isn't even true. Cecilia is a spoilt brat, but she's a pretty spoilt brat."
	"Yes, pretty spoilt" said short Mary, and everyone laughed.
	"I know you say that," said Cecilia, "but I'm not spoilt. I just hate it here so much. As you should. I hate the discipline, the food is awful, the lessons are OK but you could get them elsewhere. Basically our parents are paying a lot of money for a load of rubbish"
	"Except some of our parents aren't paying," said short Mary.
	"And do you hate us, Cecilia?" said Mandy, "Isn't that what boarding school is supposed to be about, making friends? Why do you think you're so much better than every other person?"
	"Oh, so pious, Mandy" said short Mary, "as if you'd know what a boarding school is all about. No, most of us are dumped here, as are you".
	"I'm certainly feeling very dumped" said blonde Mary.
	"Yes, leave Mandy alone" said Cecilia.
	"Oh, I don't need your help" said Mandy.
	"Shut up! Shut up! Shut up!" screamed Abagail. "Jesus, this dorm gets me down. Let's face it, we're in hell here and it our few moments of leisure what do we do, make it even more hellish for ourselves".
	"It's alright for you" said short Mary, "Abbey, you've got your brother. We, we've got nothing. So no lectures from you please on right and wrong."
	"Oh my brother," said Abagail, sarcastically, "yes, the source of all my happiness. My twin brother."

The girls pulled their clothes off and got ready for bed, settling down ill-tempered.

The first year and second year boys were knocking a ball round the school yard at lunchtime.

"Adam, pass it" called James. James was the only really good player. Sebastian was competent, whilst Albert was relatively effective in goal, as long as the blazers were placed close enough together for his smallness not to be too much of a disadvantage. Adam and Ibrahim were hopeless.

"You're meant to pass it" complained James, "it's kind of, the game."

They were playing with second years mixed in with the teams.

"From now on", said James, "put Ibrahim and Adam in separate teams. Then each team only has one dud player."	
	The second years agreed, and Adam was transferred.

Adam had been told at primary school that "football builds teamwork" however he had never believed it. Particularly he didn't believe it now. It was a reasonably pleasant way of wasting a lunchtime, but he didn't place any further value on it. Brother Gwilliam, who did games, he rather disliked, and the feeling was pretty mutual. 
	However they ran about and kicked the ball at lunchtimes, and got formal lessons in five-a-side each week. The rules were very similar to normal football, except the ball could not be kicked above head height, headers were disallowed, and only the goalie was allowed within the area, which was semi-circular. This last rule was difficult to replicate on the school yard. Because they played on the dirt it was impossible to chalk. Playing on the cobbled area would have given the ball a funny behaviour as it bounced on the uneven surface, and have meant that Albert couldn't dive. So they just arrived at an area by mutual consent. The main purpose of the rule was to eliminate goal-lagging, which could be detected easily enough.

	By the third week, the first years were ready for their first match. It was with St Dunstan's, another Catholic school on the mainland. It was mainly a rugby school, but they agreed to knock up a team to play with St Tom's.
	The minibus was loaded on to the boat and the boys and brother Gwilliam got on. It cast away from the shore. Then there was a long drive through the bleak Scottish highlands. 
	"They have no real experience of organised soccer or of five-a-side, whilst you have plenty by now" said brother Gwilliam, "so I'm expecting a resolute performance. Don't let the school down, remember the honour of St Tom's rests on you."
	Adam wondered how the honour of St Tom's could be affected by anything so trivial as a football match, but he wisely kept his mouth shut. The minibus came in through the wrought iron gates of St Dunstan's.

	St Tom's won the toss and James and Sebastian kicked off. They soon lost possession and the St Dunstan's forwards came towards Adam and Ibrahim. The St Dunstan's boy easily slipped past Adam's tackle, and took a shot at goal. Albert just saved it. Albert passed out the ball to Ibrahim, who tried to kick it up to James but got intercepted by a St Dunstan's boy. The attackers again slipped past Adam, and took another shot on goal. This time Albert jumped on it and grabbed it like a baby. He passed it out to Adam. Adam tried to pick out James, but a St Dunstan's boy ran up and dispossessed him. This time the shot went home.
	It carried on like this, with the St Dunstan's boys making attack after attack on the St Tom's goal. James and Sebastian began to hang back, and the shots decreased in frequency, with James acting as defender. Occasionally St Tom's got a run forwards, but the ball remained almost always in their half. St Dunstan's scored two more goals before half time.

"You've defended well" said brother Gwilliam, "now let's see more attacking play. We can still win this game, but you're going to need to score some goals in the second half."
	James and Sebastian tried to run up, and made a few attempts on the St Dunstan's goal. But again and again St Dunstan's slipped past them, penetrated the weak defence, and scored two more goals.
	James and Sebastian now decided to hang back, and again the play was mainly in St Tom's half. However this wasn't the St Tom's team of the first part of the game. Realising that there was no way they could win, and tired from long play, the St Tom's boys began to lose heart. They made mistakes. Three more times Albert picked the ball out of the back of the net.
	Eventually St Tom's got the ball forward again. Adam ran down the wing and received a pass from Sebastian. There was only the goalkeeper between him and the net, however the goalkeeper looked menacing. Adam decided to cross to James. He kicked the ball weakly, and it ended up in the goalie's area. The St Dunstan's goalie retrieved it and kicked it down, where St Dunstan's scored another goal. St Tom's hung on for another grim fifteen minutes, and conceded only one more goal. There were no further chances.
	"That's another one we've won" said the St Dunstan's goalie, as the teams changed together in the changing rooms.
	"I thought you just put a team together, especially for us" said Adam.
	"We do it for other schools too. Comprehensives, mainly. They like to play with us on a one-off basis. There's no league, like for rugby. This is the third match we've played this term", the goalie explained.
	 After the match there was a meal. The St Dunstan's boys were served spaghetti bologanaise. Unlike at St Tom's the spaghetti wasn't watery nor the meat sparse and overcooked. They had a rich tomato sauce with mushrooms and onions in it, and no gristle in the meat. In a specially nice touch it was topped with Parmesan. Then pudding was a fruit salad with whipped cream - bananas, oranges, and grapes.
	"Is it always like this, or is this specially for us?" asked Adam.
	"This is pretty normal", said one of the St Dunstan's boys, "I'd say we get spaghetti bol once every two weeks."

	Because it was too far to travel back that night, they stayed over. The St Tom's boys were offered spare rooms, two to a room. Initially James and Sebastian, and Adam and Albert were going to sleep together. However Adam perceived that this would be a cause of distress to Ibrahim, so he elected to sleep alone. It was the first time in over two weeks that Adam had slept in private. He luxuriated in the clean, soft white sheets, and the little table with its own kettle and teabags. You had to get water from a communal bathroom, but that took only a little away. There was even a lock on the door, which he snicked shut. He slept till reville.
	
	The postmortem on the drive home was surprisingly lacking in bitterness. 
"You played well, boys" said brother Gwilliam, "you can't expect to win the first match you play as a team, so cheer up a bit. What I want to see is more passing up from the defence. There is no offside rule in five-a-side. That's the main difference from regular football. If you can just get the ball up to a forward, you can have a shot on goal."
	Adam wasn't listening, absorbed by the splendour of the Scottish mountains. It was a totally different world to London. There, everywhere you went there were buildings and streets. Tube stations nestled up to busy shopping centres, with housing in the back parts. The people you saw on a journey you would never see again, it was just a sea of constantly changing faces. Here, everything was strung out over vast spaces. When a car was seen in the opposite direction it was an event. They stopped in a small village for petrol and the attendant knew brother Gwilliam. Eventually they reached the boat again, and after the crossing were back at St Tom's. The gates of the main school closed behind Adam like a prison.
	"It doesn't have to be this way", he thought, "why can't we be like St Dunstan's?"

Mr Warren, games master at St Dunstan's, gave his boys a debrief.
"They only have five boys in the whole of their first year", he said, "we are picking from thirty. So well done everybody for winning, but it can't be like this for the rematch. Notice the discipline of the St Tom's team. They were way down, and still fighting, still trying to get that last chance. And no recriminations. Notice that. They accepted they had been beaten, with good grace and sportsmanship. I wish you had their spirit."

	Back in the dorm, James was bitter.
	"Adam", he said, "you're just in a dream all the time. We had a chance to score, and you can't even kick the ball out of the goalie's area. How bad is that?"
	"Sorry, James" said Adam.
	"I don't want a dud team. St Tom's will just be a laughing stock. Ten nil." he looked down at the floor in frustration. "This is bad for the reputation of St Tom's".
	"Like how is it bad for the school's reputation?" Adam asked him.
	"It is. Ten nil. We will be the laughing stock of Scotland."
	"Come on James, it's only a game." Adam protested.
	"In your opinion. Yes, only a game. Doesn't matter what we score." James rounded on him.
	"It's ungentlemanly to be too good at games." Sebastian offered.
	"Just face it, we are useless." said Albert.
	"Yes, James" said Ibrahim, "it doesn't really matter."
	James realised that he was in a minority of one.

	"Look," he said, "it might not matter to you, but it matters to me. I like sport. I don't want to go down ten nil. It's a humiliation. What would my father say? What's brother Gwilliam going to say?"
	"We need to practise more." said Sebastian, "play our band of heroes against the second years at lunch time, instead of mixing up."
	"Then we'll go down ten nil again" said James.
	"But St Dunstan's could pick and choose from thirty" said Adam, "we've got to face the fact that we'll always be playing a superior team."
	"That's the answer," said Albert, "the teams we play will always be superior, because we're stuck with the material we've got. So the second years are good practise. Sure, we'll go down, but we'll learn how to close down superior opposition. Maybe we can hold it to one or two nil instead of ten. That's the best we can hope for. We can still play mixed every other lunchtime to keep some competitiveness."
	"Alright", agreed James. And so it was settled.

Meanwhile brother Gwilliam had the unenviable task of reporting the disaster to Father Abbot.

"A complete catastrophe, I'm afraid Father," said the monk, "they were wiped out ten nil."
"Ten nil?" said Father Abbot, "what happened?"
"Adam, basically," the games master told him, "he's in a total dream. I think he just doesn't care. No interest at all in the result. Then Ibrahim is not exactly a star either. Albert's got the makings of a decent goalkeeper but he's not there yet, not by a long shot. James is the only one who is really good. So effectively it was three players against five. I don't see this working. We've got to strengthen the side. Drop Adam and maybe Ibrahim as well, and reinforce with second years."
	"Oh no, Adam is not getting out of games as easily as that" said Father Abbot, "however I'd agree that ten nil isn't really viable. Let's see if we can find some weaker opposition."
	"St Dunstan's told me that some of the comprehensives can put up informal sides. They play full elevens for the league, obviously." brother Gwilliam told him
	"I think we've made the right decision on five-a-side" said Father Abbot, "the younger ones can't work effectively in teams of eleven. It just turns into a herd chasing a ball. But in teams of five, each member is vital. Adam and Ibrahim won't be able to coast for long."
	"They won't coast at all" said brother Gwilliam.
	"See if we can get a more respectable result next time," said Father Abbot, "I have a running bet with the head of St Dunstan's – if we don't win the rematch, that's a bottle of finest malt whiskey gone to waste" 

	Usually sporting results were announced after Mass. This time, Father Abbot didn't even announce the score. "You played well, boys" he said, shortly.
	However news of the disaster was pretty soon all over the junior calefactory. The first year boys had to endure teasing from the older members of St Tom's, which irritated Adam and infuriated James. A motion was put through the JC meeting, "This house will support the first year football team for their next match" and two third years made sarcastic comments about tensely awaiting the results and getting talent spotters in from the Scottish premier league side Celtic. The first years sat as their ears burned, and didn't dare to take the floor to defend themselves.

	Girls at St Tom's played netball. Mandy was easily the best, having a natural ability to aim accurately at the net. Since she was a bit behind in her academic work, not having had the good primary education that the others had enjoyed, it gave her a sense of value and of status. It was about the only sense of value she really had. Cecilia's letter had opened her eyes. What the girls said on the surface wasn't always what they thought underneath.
	Blonde Mary viewed netball with horror. She was naturally lazy, and used to watching TV with her fashionable friends whilst being waited on by fleets of servants, not to running and jumping. She also didn't like the idea that you had to fight for the ball. Everything she had, had been given to her. The idea of competing seemed alien, and impolite.
	"Come on Mary" brother Gwilliam called to her, "show some effort. Attack the ball."
	Mandy was on the opposing team, and intercepted a pass to blonde Mary. Brother Gwilliam shook his head.
	"Mandy, calm down a bit can't you sweetest?" asked blonde Mary, after the game was over, "a girl like me needs to play gently."
	"Yes, that was a bit rough, Mandy" said Abagail, "we all know how Mary hates games, no need to rub it in."
	"Well I hate it when people don't try" said Mandy, "come on, you've got to show some effort, go for the ball."
	"There's nothing I detest so much as effort," said blonde Mary, languidly.
	"Yes, it is vulgar" said short Mary, "didn't Sebastian explain how it is ungentlemanly to be too good at games?"
  	"Sebastian was only teasing" said Cecilia, "because the boys went down ten nil. Trust Sebastian to put a good gloss on it. You're always down on Mandy."

The girls left the changing room, and it was break. They made their way to the yard through the ruins, with Mandy and Cecilia hanging back.
	"Mandy," said Cecilia, "you're too serious about games and about work. You're a goody two shoes. The other girls don't like that. I'm telling you, as a friend."
	"I don't need your friendship, Cecilia" said Mandy.
	"Well don't think blonde Mary likes you" said Cecilia. "Abbey, maybe, but you're putting her off. You put all the other girls off with your attitude. Trust me, Mandy. We all hate it here, you've got to accept and acknowledge that. We don't need someone in favour of the system."
	"Abbey sneaked on me, I never on her, never on no-one." Mandy protested.
	"It's never on anyone, Mandy" Cecilia corrected her, "I'm just trying to help you."
	"Don't pretend that to me" said Mandy, "I know what your real attitude is."
	
	Abagail had sneaked on her, short Mary was perpetually bitchy, Cecilia real attitude she knew from the letter, and she had lost blonde Mary's favour. Mandy was feeling very isolated and vulnerable.
	"Mandy," said Cecilia, "I want the other girls to accept you despite your disadvantages."
	"You bitch" said Mandy, "you hate me, I know you hate me."
	"Mandy," said Cecilia, "I never."

	Mandy slapped her hard across the mouth.

	"Mandy, why?" gasped Cecilia.
	"Bitch, bitch, bitch", screamed Mandy, slapping her violently. Cecilia made a half-hearted attempt to defend herself. However Mandy knew how to give a beating. Kicking and punching, she laid into Cecilia, knocking her head against the stone walls of the ruins, raining blows on her even as she laid on the floor.
	
	The fight would have been undetected, however brother Dominic happened to be passing that way, and saw the two girls struggling on the uneven ground. He called out, and grabbed both by their shirts.
	"That is most unladylike" he said, firmly.
	"This vicious thing attacked me." said Cecilia.
	"Be that as it may, Miss Cecilia" said brother Dominic, "you go straight to Father Abbot".

He dumped them both outside Father Abbot's great oak door, went in and briefly described the situation.
	"Mandy, I hate you" hissed Cecilia.

Father Abbot called in Cecilia first.

"Sit down," he said, "and calm down. Now can you explain yourself?"
"You do not sneak" thought Cecilia.
"How did you come to be fighting?" asked Father Abbot
"We were arguing, Sir. I think I was making Mandy insecure. The thing is that all the other girls were beginning to gang up on her, and so I thought I would warn her. But it came over the wrong way. For some reason she thinks I hate her as well. Which I don't, really I don't. Except now I hate her, of course."
"So what were you saying to Mandy to provoke this?"
"I corrected her grammar, Sir. I think that was the final straw." Cecilia said
"And then what happened?" asked father Abbot
"I hit her," Cecilia lied.
"I see" said Father Abbot, "and then she retaliated, did she? So that's how you came to be fighting?"
"Yes Sir. I'll know to keep away from her next time. She's got it into her head that I'm her enemy, for some reason. I suppose people with her disadvantages are like that, always seeing the worst in people, lashing out spitefully and with no intelligence. Look what she's done to me. Completely ruined my clothes."
	"But you partly blame yourself" asked Father Abbot.
	"I thought she was a friend, Sir, but now I realise she never was."
	"And you're completely sure you hit her first?"
	Cecilia nodded though clenched teeth.
	"Thank you Cecilia for your account," said Father Abbot, gratefully. "We'll have Mandy."

Mandy was summoned in, Cecilia remaining still in the room.

	"How exactly do you explain this?" asked father Abbot.
	Mandy stared at the floor.
	"Come on, how exactly?"
	"I said that Mary wasn't putting enough effort into netball" said Mandy, "then all the girls ganged up on me. Now previously to this Cecilia and I ..."
	Father Abbot put up his hand.
	"Mandy, I don't want to hear this. What you did was vicious, and I would have had no option other than to expel you, other than for one thing, which is that Cecilia admitted to me that she struck you first. However your reaction was beyond all proportion. You cannot behave like that. However since it was mutual, punishment runs for both of you, tomorrow morning. Now please leave."
	"I will never speak to you again, Mandy" said Cecilia.

Brother Dominic was next in Father Abbot's office.
"That was a really nasty attack" said brother Dominic.
"She needs a good beating" said Father Abbot.
"She's had plenty of good beatings," said brother Dominic, "that's half the problem."
"Fortunately," said Father Abbot, "Cecilia elected to take half the blame. Which makes things a whole lot easier for us."
"Maybe it was a mistake to have Mandy" said brother Dominic.
"No," said Father Abbot, "Mandy is not a mistake." 

"I would go to my parents and insist that Mandy is expelled." said short Mary, as soon as she heard of the fight.
"She would have been" said Cecilia, "except that I said I hit her first. I didn't, of course."
"Why did you do that?" asked short Mary.
"Sneaking," said Cecilia.
"That's for boys" said Abagail, "you don't need to pretend anything. She attacked you."
"This is a boy's school, isn't it?" said Cecilia.
"Oh, look, there she comes" said Abagail, "look, let's none of pretend we can even hear her."
"Cecilia," said Mandy, "I need to talk to you."
"Did I hear a mouse squeak?" said Abagail.
"No it was definitely human" said short Mary, "or humanoid, should I say. Something in an accent we can't understand."
"Anyway, as I was saying," said Cecilia, "this is a boys' school, so I'd say that the rules are rules for the boys. It doesn't make sense to have one set for them and one set for girls, because that demeans us."
"Right you are, Cecilia" said short Mary, turning her back on Mandy, "but physical violence is unladylike. It has no place between us."
	"Oh, I'd say the same for the boys" said Cecilia, "I don't see how violence is any more acceptable between boys than it is between two girls. What's your opinion, Abbey?"
	"Oh, I'd take a cat fight more seriously" said Abagail, "but that makes it sound more trivial than it is. You've been hurt pretty badly, Cecilia."
	Actually Abagail didn't know half of it. Mandy had kicked and punched Cecilia in such a way as to inflict maximum physical pain, whilst leaving a minimum of external injury, as she herself had frequently experienced herself. All Cecilia's joints were aching from the inside. 

	The next morning, Mandy and Cecilia were brought up in gym kit, and made to do the punishment run. There was a slight drizzle in the air and Cecilia hoped that they would be let off, but Father Abbot insisted on them doing it.
	Mandy raced round the island reasonably smartly. However Cecilia, who had done the run before in fourteen minutes, had been so badly beaten that she was incapable of making the effort. She desperately tried to keep up with Mandy, but her legs and ribs were sore and aching before she started. She managed fifteen minutes thirty.
	"Twice round again", called the prefects. Cecilia, exhausted from the previous run, now had to run round twice. Every step was agony, she had a deep stitch. Worse, she had paced herself for a single circuit, and now her legs were demanding reserves of energy that were not there. However it was a different experience to the last punishment run. That one she had deserved, this was voluntary. If only she had not lied about hitting Mandy first, Mandy would have been expelled and she would have been comfortably in the sick bay. Instead she was pounding away three circuits of the island.
	Because of the time she also missed Mass and breakfast. She felt like being physically sick for the whole of that day, and couldn't concentrate on lessons. However she no longer hated Mandy.

It took Mandy most of that morning to realise that she had been sent to Coventry.


	Meanwhile the boys were mainly interested in five-a-side. It was Albert who got the key. The second years were older and more able than the first years, and sliced through the first year defence, bombarding Albert's goal with shots as the St Dunstan's boys had done.
	"I need some decent defence" said the goalkeeper, "at the moment we play Sebastian and James forward. Which means that there's no-one to protect the goal when they come through."
	"The best players are forward to score the goals" said James
	"But it's not like we're scoring many goals anyway," said Albert, "the play is always in our half. We need to pull one of you two back, to win it, then pass it up to the forwards to keep them under pressure.”
	“Sebastian, then” said James, “but I won't score as many without another forward to back me up”.
	"We're not looking to win, we're looking to told them to less than ten nil. We need a good player back. That's the reality, James.."
	"So who can be second forward?"
	"Let's face it, Adam will never score a goal. So keep him back. Ibrahim goes forwards and tries to get it to you. We play a strong right, with you and Sebastian, and a weak left with Adam and Ibrahim."
	Albert had argued James into it.

Playing the new system at lunchtimes, it worked surprisingly well. The first years still lost regularly, but it was by two nil or three nil. Sebastian could intercept the ball and get it up to James, who placed the opposing goal under a constant mild threat. They didn't really have many chances but it was enough to make the second years think and pull back. Sometimes they forgot themselves and pushed all four outfield players forwards, in which case James and Sebastian could break and get shots on goal.
	Adam was always back, so the first year goal always had a thin layer of defence. He could often get it up to Ibrahim, who passed it sharply over to James. They got a few chances that way. The problem was that James was invariably tackled, tried to pass back to Ibrahim, and lost possession. But Sebastian was back to intercept the inevitable attack, so second year breaks didn't translate to shots on goal so often. Often of course they lost their shape, and the game degenerated into a crowd of eight chasing after the ball, with no-one to receive passes on the other part of the field. But it was fun, and it filled the lunch hours.

	Before they knew where they were, it was next Sunday. The children had now been three weeks at St Tom's.
Chapter 5. Cecilia tries to get revenge

"How's the rabbit trap going?" Abagail asked Albert.

"Practically done", their handyman told her, "I thought originally I'd make a snare, but you need wire and things for that. It's too compromising. So in the end I made a box trap."

"Let's see", Albert and Adam and Abagail went to the woodwork room. It was unlocked on a Sunday, though no-one was there. There was an array of saws and hammers and drills on the wall, and some big items of equipment that Abagail didn't recognise.
"Lathes" said Albert, "unfortunately you need a key to use them".
The trap was a simple box sitting on a workbench. Adam looked at it dubiously.
"Is that it?"
"That's it. I already had the box. I've added a seesaw. The rabbit enters, and the seesaw goes down. He then steps off the seesaw, and it folds up into place again. Dead simple, just a hinge, no springs or anything. He can't get out because once the seesaw has tipped back he's behind it." Albert explained.
"Have you tested it?" Adam asked.
"How can I?" Albert told him, "but I know roughly how big a rabbit is. That seesaw should swing. All we need is some bait."
"Carrots." said Adam.
"Not soggy cooked carrots like we get for dinner" said Abagail, "decent, raw carrot, straight from the kitchen."
	"How are we going to get that?" asked Adam.
	"Dunno" said Albert.

In the event it was James who volunteered to take the risk of sneaking into the kitchen. It led straight from the refectory. All it took was the courage to open the door with some pretext handy in case it was occupied. James put a fork in his pocket at dinner, and then planned to say he would return it. In the event, the kitchen was empty. In the pantry, James quickly located the store of raw vegetables. He munched one of the carrots himself, so much nicer than when cooked. Heart beating, he then dived into the utensils drawer. There were spoons and rollers and mashers, but not what he was looking for. "Must have been blind" he said to himself. There was a magnetic strip above the worksurface, upon which there were several knives.
	James selected a sharp one. He was aware that this might be misinterpreted. He put it in the inside pocket of his blazer, put the carrots in the outside pockets, and walked away. He returned with his trophies in triumph to Adam and Albert.
	They took the trap outside and hid it in the ruins, choosing a place closely overrun with bushes and scrub where no-one would ever go. They further disguised the trap with branches. They then put the bait at the top of the seesaw bridge. It was relatively quick to set up.
	"A rabbit trap" said Adam, proudly.
	"Just hope it works," said Albert.
	"How do we cook the rabbit?" asked Adam.
	"Worry about that when we catch one", said Albert, "we've got to check it every day. It's just like a warren for the rabbit, they'll keep calm inside it. However leave them for more than a day and they might die of thirst."
	"That would be horrible" said Adam.

It seemed safest to check the trap after dark, straight after prep. So they arranged to take it in turns, Adam, Albert, and James, to go with a torch.
	"You realise this bit of the ruins is a graveyard?" said Albert.
	"I can't see any headstones" said Adam, "how can you tell?"
	"I don't think they had headstones in the olden days," said Albert, "you can tell from these holes cut into the rocks, to hold a person."
	"Those are too small to hold a fullgrown man" said Adam.
	"Maybe they were for children, then. They're definitely old graves." said Albert.
	Looking at the ground, it seemed to be true. Adam cleared a bit of brush away. "Here's an inscription" he said, "I think it's in Latin. Let's make it out."
	"Hic jacet sepultus Gregorius abbas, can't read the rest. What does jacet mean?"
	"Dunno, look it up." Albert suggested.
	"Hic", he obviously died of drink" said James.
	"Anyway," said Adam, "I don't think the rabbits will care."

Brother Dominic taught Latin.

"Sir, what does 'jacket' mean in Latin?" asked Adam.
"Jacket?" said brother Dominic, "Latin has no 'j'".
"Well I saw it," said Adam, and all of a sudden James fell to fits of coughing.
"My goodness, James" said brother Dominic, not in the least deceived, "what is this sudden turn of ailment."
"Sir, it's the food", said James, "something I ate at lunchtime. Can I go out and get a glass of water, Sir?"
"Well surely not. I can't see food provoking such a reaction. Maybe you can wait a few minutes and see if this strange affliction subsides."
"Oh Sir, the food is bad" said James.
"That's quite enough James" said brother Dominic firmly, "but back to your question, Adam, do you mean 'iacet', with the 'I' pronounced as a 'Y', hence 'Yacet'. That's Latin for 'he lies'. Anyone know what the first person would be?"
"Iaco", said Mandy.
"Iaceo, actually", corrected brother Dominic. "OK, back to the first declension. 'The queen of the island loves sailors'. Who can translate that into Latin for me?"
Mandy's had was back up.
"Any other volunteers?" asked brother Dominic, "no, OK, I'll pick on someone." He pointed to blonde Mary.
"Pass" said blonde Mary.
"Come on Mary, you can do better than that. What is the word for 'queen'?" insisted brother Dominic.
"Regina" said blonde Mary, reluctantly.
"And what case is it in?" insisted brother Dominic. Drawing a blank, he pleaded, "anybody".
"Nominative" said Mandy.
"Very good, and 'of the island'. What does 'of' imply for case, Mary"
"Genitive".
"So what is the queen of the island?"
"Regina insulae."
"There you see, you do know it. Now translate the whole sentence for me please."
"Regina insulae amat nautas", replied blonde Mary.
"Can anyone improve on that?" asked brother Dominic.
"Regina insulae nautas amat", it was Mandy again.
"Very good, it is more idiomatic to have the verb, amat, towards the end of the sentence." brother Dominic said, "Don't try to replace each English word by an equivalent one in Latin, get into the Latin way of thinking about things. James, what are you doing?" 

James was creating a spitball, which he intended to throw at Mandy. However with only ten in the class, brother Dominic was not so easily distracted. James fully expected to get lines or even a detention, when he was saved by the bell for None.
	Abagail tripped up Mandy on the way to the chapel.
	"She humiliated me" said blonde Mary.
	"Dirty little thing, and a toady to boot" said short Mary.
	"Don't worry", said Abagail, "we'll make her life hell."
	"She'll wish she never left that care home of hers", said short Mary.
	"'Sir, I've been to the graveyard', show a bit of sense, Adam" said James, "what does it matter what some silly inscription says?"
	Everyone made sure that they were not standing in the stall next to Mandy at None, so it became increasingly obvious to all that none of the girls were talking to her. The boys agreed to join in. Adam, particularly, was shocked when Cecilia revealed a violent purple bruise all the way down her leg. However they found themselves responding to Mandy's provocations, and jeering at her instead of coldly ignoring her. Boys simply aren't as good as girls at that sort of thing.

	James got back into Latin class first after None, and swiped Mandy's Latin book, which had been left on the desk - they were meant to drop everything the moment the bell rang - and hid it in the wastepaper basket.
	"Mandy what is up?" asked brother Dominic.
	"My Latin textbook, it's gone Sir."
	"Now has anyone seen Mandy's textbook?" asked brother Dominic.
	The class was silent.
	"Mandy, where did you put it" asked brother Dominic.
	"I don't know, Sir, must have lost it Sir" said Mandy. She knew that, bad though the situation may be, she would only make it worse for herself by blaming the others.
	"Now I am getting increasingly irritated by this class", said brother Dominic, "someone must have taken Mandy's textbook and know where it is. Will that person please own up, before we have any more disruption."
	"I can see it in the wastepaper basket, Sir" said James, realising that he had pushed brother Dominic too far.
	"So Mandy, how did your textbook come to be in the wastepaper basket?" asked brother Dominic, menacingly.
	"I don't know, Sir".
	"Right, since no-one is owning up to this the class is in detention. Including you, Mandy. We don't have time for this. Now let's concentrate on some Latin."

	"You're making yourself a most unpopular person, old girl" said Sebastian, as they left the classroom. "Why not admit you're in the wrong, sometime?"
	It was impossible to check the trap at the normal time due to having to stay on after prep to do the detention. The detention was Latin, a passage about queens and islands and tables and sailors. At this stage, that was all they could translate. Adam found it difficult. Not in a single exercise had he ever obtained 100% marks on Latin prep, though it wasn't so disastrously bad as mathematics tended to be. "I've no facility for languages' he thought, "not good at games, not good at music, yet I'm supposed to be intelligent."
	It was Albert's turn to check the trap, which he did last thing after the detention, slipping way. There was no rabbit in it, and the bait was beginning to droop, the carrots losing tone. Adam checked the seesaw. It seemed to be OK, but maybe a little steep. He decided there and then to give it another week, and rebalance the trap on Saturday.

	Ibrahim was in trouble. He had been to primary school in Pakistan. To avoid prospective students having to travel to Britain, St Tom's had mailed the entrance examination papers to the school in Pakistan. Ibrahim's headmaster, Mr Khan, was not a dishonest man, but the culture is very different in Pakistan. Since the system was so easily cheated, he simply assumed that everyone would cheat, and that he had to do the same to give Ibrahim a fair chance. So he opened the examination papers a week before the examination, and gave Ibrahim two chances on what was effectively the same maths paper, with just some of the numbers changed around. He did the same for English, setting Ibrahim a practise paper that was very close to the one he was going to sit, then going through it correcting all the mistakes, so Ibrahim was extremely well-drilled for the examination.
	When Ibrahim came to sit the paper he found it extremely easy, and didn't realise what Mr Khan had done. However three and a half weeks into St Toms, and he was struggling, a firm bottom in every subject except music, where Adam was the worst.
	However whereas Adam reacted to low marks by crying publicly before the whole class, Ibrahim was more stoical. He decided that since he was obviously no good at his work, he wouldn't even try. He would just go through the motions to keep out of trouble and prevent himself being expelled.

	Brother Robin was in charge of English. When he saw the quality of Ibrahim's work, he was appalled. It was full of spelling mistakes and grammatical errors, which first he had put down to Ibrahim being from Pakistan. However his standard of oral English was fluent. "This isn't the same boy who wrote the entrance paper" he thought to himself, "what could have happened? Maybe he is not happy here."
	Brother Robin's lessons were always rather loose. He was a young, sensitive monk, with a great love of music and the arts. He was capable of spending a whole lesson playing the Hallelujah chorus from Handel's Messiah, instead of doing any study.
	James and Ibrahim thought that they could take advantage. The set work was a poem by William Blake, called "The Lamb".

Little Lamb, who made thee? 
Dost thou know who made thee? 
Gave thee life, and bid thee feed, 
By the stream and o'er the mead; 
Gave thee clothing of delight, 
Softest clothing, woolly, bright; 
Gave thee such a tender voice, 
Making all the vales rejoice? 
Little Lamb, who made thee? 
Dost thou know who made thee? 

Little Lamb, I'll tell thee, 
Little Lamb, I'll tell thee. 
He is called by thy name, 
For He calls Himself a Lamb. 
He is meek, and He is mild; 
He became a little child. 
I a child, and thou a lamb, 
We are called by His name. 
Little Lamb, God bless thee! 
Little Lamb, God bless thee! 

Brother Robin made Abagail read the poem out loud. "Poetry must be read aloud" said brother Robin, "and what do you notice as Abagail did so?"
"Alliteration, Sir", said Mandy.
"And anyone else?"
"Baa-ing, Sir", said James.
"And where do you see baa-ing?"
"Little laaaamb, little laaamb" James exaggerated. Everyone laughed.
"Read the whole poem like that" said brother Robin.
"Little laaamb, who maaade thee, Dost thou know-o who maaade thee" James began, and was drowned out by gales of laughter.
"James, for all his vulgarity, is right" said brother Robin, "the technical term in onomatopoeia. When the sound of the poem suggests the sound of the thing. Now who can scan poetry?"
"Stress, unstress" said Cecilia, "I've heard of that."
"I just unstress" said Ibrahim.
Brother Robin ignored him.
"'Little lamb, who made thee?', how does that scan?" he asked.
"unstress, unstress, stress on lamb, unstress, unstress, stress on thee" said Adam.
"So for prep, everyone is to provide a scansion of 'The Lamb'" said brother Robin, obviously making the assignment up on the spot.
"It's all the same," said Adam, "unstress, unstress, stress, right the way through."

Ibrahim was getting bored by this. "Who cares about a damn lamb?" he said, "damn lamb, that rhymes, I'm a poet."
	"So Ibrahim's theory is that poetry must rhyme" said brother Robin, "how much rhyme is there in this poem?"
	"It depends if you count the same words as rhyming," said Adam.
	"Same words can rhyme" said Cecilia.
	"Can't", said Abagail, "that's cheating."
	"Can", insisted Cecilia.
	"Lamb and name, I don't call that much of a rhyme" said Abagail, "that's cheating as well."
	"He thinks it's important because he uses that rhyme twice" said Mandy.
	Everyone ignored her.
	"Would you call that cheating, Abagail?" asked brother Robin, "to use a rhyme twice."
	"Yes, I would" said Abagail.
	"Let's scratch the scansion prep for you and Cecilia" said brother Robin, "and write on 'what constitutes cheating in poetry'".
	Ibrahim felt totally left behind. He was incapable of scanning the poem, and he didn't feel like writing the essay on cheating either. Brother Robin got no prep from him that day, except a halfhearted printout of "The Lamb" with some scansion marks over it.

	"Brother Robin is a real gent" said Sebastian, "you're just spoiling the lesson, Ibrahim."
This surprised Ibrahim, as he thought he would be a real hero for injecting a bit of fun. However unlike James, he wasn't intelligent, and didn't get high marks on the occasions when he tried. 
	"You're just a fool, Ibrahim" said James, "You're parents are paying good money to send you to this school, and you don't put any effort in. Not at English, not at maths, not even at games."
	Ibrahim went to bed feeling very low, and wet it, as usual, that night. He was also desperately worried about his parents in Pakistan. There were rumours that the military were planning a coup.

	Adam checked the trap again that night. The bait had been pushed into the far corner of the trap, and had been nibbled. However of the rabbit there was no sign. He returned to the calefactory and called Albert over.
	"The rabbit can get out simply by pushing on the seesaw. It isn't too heavy for it, after all." said Albert, "I made a mistake with the design. What you need is a pin, so the seesaw stays in the tilted position. Then the rabbit is trapped with it tilted upwards."
	"How long to get a pin?" asked Adam.
	"The problem is I've got to cut a piece of metal to size. Which means measuring it and getting a hacksaw. But I can do it next Saturday."
	"So we leave the trap until then?" asked Adam.
	"I think we'd better take it up, and try again next week." agreed Albert.
	"Still," said Adam, "we got a real live rabbit in it."

The girl's calefactory had become a terrible place for Mandy. Even the girls from the older years were joining in her shunning. She went to the dorm to find somewhere private to cry, and there was blonde Mary, brushing her hair as usual.
	"Are you upset, Mandy sweetest?" asked blonde Mary.
	"Obviously" said Mandy.
	"I will still talk to you," said blonde Mary, "but only in private. The other girls would shun me too, if they knew I was speaking with you."
	"Oh, thanks, Mary" said Mandy, pathetically grateful to have someone to speak to at last.

	"I know why you attacked Cecilia" said blonde Mary, "she's a bitch, isn't she? Come, let me do your hair." blonde Mary moved over to Mandy, brushing her hair with her own hairbrush, "You could look really nice, Mandy, if you just had someone to take care of you. Do you use moisturising cream?"
	Mandy shook her head.
	"It helps" said blonde Mary, "I guess you've had a hard time."
	"My Mum never bought me anything like that" said Mandy, "she's a drug addict. She used to spend all her money on drugs. So sometimes I'd go for days without any food, because all the money had been spent. Then she'd get a bit of money in from somewhere, and we'd have a takeaway. We never cooked."
	"You know Mandy, I'll tell you a secret" said blonde Mary, "my mother is also on drugs. I haven't told anyone else that. Let it be a secret between us. People envy me my life, but in reality it is hard. It's hard having to get up at one day's notice and go to Los Angeles for a film audition. Of course the hotel is luxurious, and we get one of the best suites, but it's still a hotel. Then there's the trips to see my father in Spain. I never know whether I am coming or going."
	"So you like it here" said Mandy.
	"No," said blonde Mary, "I hate it. I hate not having my own things. Then I'm like you. There's no-one like me in first year. Everyone else leads such a restricted life. They watch television, whilst I meet the people who appear on it. It's a different attitude, those who are somebody versus those who only watch. But don't tell them this, Mandy dearest."
	"At least your mother still sees you" said Mandy, "mine is in prison. I didn't even get a letter back when I wrote to her."
	"Does she know anybody on the outside?" asked blonde Mary.
	"Well there's Chris" said Mandy, "but I hate him. He's her last boyfriend. They haven't fallen out yet."
	"You mustn't hate people, Mandy dearest" said blonde Mary, "after all, if I hated all of my mother's boyfriends, I have to hate practically all the men in the world. So much hate. Who is this Chris?"
	"A drugs dealer" said Mandy.
	"Did he beat you?" asked blonde Mary.
	"Oddly enough, no" said Mandy, "but that was probably because I was in care before he met my mother. She got limited contact with a view to me coming out, then I met him once or twice at her flat. He gave me a ten pound note the first time, quite the gentleman. Then social services got to hear about it, she went into prison, and that was that. He was charged but the jury acquitted him."
	"In that case" said blonde Mary, "this Chris sounds like a route to your mother. You've got to use people like that, don't throw away your advantages, Mandy."
	"I'm not sure I want any contact with him" said Mandy.
	"Sending him to Coventry?" asked blonde Mary, and both girls laughed. "Look, Mandy," said blonde Mary, "you needn't worry, with me here to look after you. No-one is going to dare try any violence on me, or any other my friends. My father wouldn't stand for it, and money talks, believe me. Just keep me informed, and we'll get a letter from your mother."

	They heard a noise outside, and fell silent. Blonde Mary turned her back on Mandy. Short Mary came in, and parked herself on the single chair in the dorm.
	"There's a smell in this room" she said.
	"Perfume?" offered blonde Mary.
	"No, there's definitely a smell. I'm surprised it hasn't bothered you."
	"Oh yes" said blonde Mary, "shall we go back to the calefactory until it has gone away?"

Cecilia was still nursing a body sore all over from her beating at the hands of Mandy and triple punishment run. She turned to Abagail.
	"Abbey" she said, "I really can't face netball."
	"Pull a sickie then" said Abagail.
	"My legs are still too tired after that punishment run. Somehow I don't think Father Abbot will have any sympathy." explained Cecilia.
	"No, too right, he won't" said Abagail, "Cecilia, you can't be expected to do netball in your state. How about some poisonous crab?"
	"Are you crazy?" said Cecilia, "you and Adam could have killed poor Rupert."
	"He was a bully and he deserved it" said Abagail, "no, I know, you drink salt water. It'll make you really sick, then you miss games".
	"I'd rather not be sick as well as aching all over" said Cecilia, "some other way, Abbey."
	"Oh, I know" said Abagail, "Mandy is going to attack you again."
	"How come?"
	"I'll take you to the ruins before netball" said Abagail, "tie you up and mess your clothes about. Then put you somewhere comfortable. You say that Mandy has done it. Then you get to miss games, and Mandy gets into the trouble she deserves."
	"How can I sneak on Mandy, especially when she hasn't actually done it?" asked Cecilia.
	"You're thinking like a boy again", said Abagail, "you don't say 'Mandy did it'. So say someone came up behind you, and said, 'I'll get back at you'. You're not sure who the voice was, but it was a girl, and it all happened so fast. They'll soon twig it was Mandy."
	"If you think so" said Cecilia, unsure.
	"It'll work, trust me" said Abagail.

The next day they finished a Latin lesson, and the next lesson was games. Abagail and Cecilia, giggling slightly, went out to the ruins to execute the plan. Mandy was still being ignored, and stayed back.
	"Mandy", said brother Dominic, "can I have a quick word?"
	It had not escaped the boys' housemaster that Mandy was being shunned by the other girls, and he wanted to establish what was going on.
	"You escaped any serious punishment for attacking Cecilia" he said, "so the girls are meting out their own punishment. You will have to live with this, Mandy. Life is not easy, life is hard. You know that."
	"They hated me before" said Mandy, "this just brought it into the open."
	  "Well perhaps if you apologised to Cecilia and asked her forgiveness" suggested brother Dominic.
	"Oh no" said Mandy, "I'm not apologising. She should apologise to me."
	Defeated, brother Dominic let her go.

Abagail tore strips from Mandy's sheet in the dorm, then ran on to the ruins. Using the strips she tied up a compliant Cecilia, and then blindfolded her.
	"Comfortable?" she asked Cecilia.
	"It's a bit cold" Cecilia protested.
	"Here, take my jacket as well and put it over you." Abagail said, "now I've got to hurry to netball."
	Brother Gwilliam was irritated as three girls were late. Abagail came within the first five minutes, followed by Mandy a minute later. Of Cecilia there was no sign.
	"Come on ladies" he said, "chop chop for netball, or I'll replace it with a cross country. Where is Cecilia?"
	Eventually he started the lesson without her. 
	Mandy was in the goal-scoring position and placed shot after shot, mostly on target. They had to play five a side instead of the usual seven because of the lack of Cecilia, and blonde Mary got a chance to sit out.

	The boys meanwhile were playing football unsupervised, and completely oblivious to the drama that was about to unfold. Father Abbot came to check on them, and was satisfied to see how the game was progressing smoothly without any adult to referee. "First years, you've got a game next week" he told them, "let's see if we can score some goals this time."
	He walked over to the netball court, which took him past the place where Cecilia lay. To his astonishment, he found a girl bound and gagged lying in the ruins of an ancient sacristy.
	"What on Earth?" he unbound her, "Cecilia, what happened?"
	"Oh Father Abbot", said Cecilia, "I was attacked"
	"Attacked?" said Father Abbot.
	"Yes Sir, someone came up behind me, said, 'I'll get you back' and pushed me to the ground. Then they put the blindfold on and bound me. Hurt me, as well. I'm feeling really ill, Father Abbot."
	"Do you have any idea who it might be?"
	"I didn't see them" said Cecilia, untruthfully.
	Father Abbot looked at her quizzically.
	“Well a boy or a girl?” he asked.
	“A girl” said Cecilia

	Father Abbot picked up the jacket lying on the ground. His eye chanced on the label inside. "Abagail Newman". "Hmm" he thought to himself, but didn't say anything.

	After Compline, Father Abbot asked that the person who tied up Cecilia in the ruins please own up. Abagail stared very obviously at Mandy, sitting on her own in a stall some way from the others. The other girls followed suit. Mandy started to feel very self-conscious. Soon all eyes were upon her.
	No-one owned up.
	"Very well" said Father Abbot, "in that case we must take the matter considerably more seriously. The miscreant will be found."
	The children returned to the calefactories. Abagail had planned to start a whispering campaign against Mandy, but in the event she didn't have to. Mandy's name was on everyone's lips. "She tied up Cecilia to get her back for sending her to Coventry."
	“Did you notice that Mandy was late for netball?” said short Mary, “That must have been when she was attacking Cecilia again.”
	“And her sheets have been ripped? She must have planned this out.”
	“Someone should go to Fr Abbot. Let's hope she's caught. Then she'll be expelled.” 
	“If she'd have owned up when Father Abbot asked she might have gotten away with it”, said Abagail, “but not now. She's left it too late.”
	“I don't see what charity girls are doing in this school, anyway,” said short Mary, “The sooner she goes, the better.”
	To Mandy this was a nightmare. She couldn't endure it any longer. She went to Father Abbot to own up to tying up Cecilia.
	Father Abbot sent for Cecilia. Mandy was sat outside the oak panelled door, the picture of misery.
	"I'll be expelled" she said, "but I don't care any longer. I know how much I am hated."
	Cecilia was suddenly touched with compassion, but she couldn't let it show.
	"I hate you Mandy, and I'm glad you're going to be expelled." she said.

Father Abbot called them both in.
	"So" he said, "you two again. Is there any end to the grief you will cause me? Now kindly tell me what this is all about?"
	"Mandy beat me up, and she wasn't punished adequately" said Cecilia, "so the other girls and me sent her to Coventry."
	"And what's that got to do with this?" asked Father Abbot.
	“So she's obviously getting back at me in the only way she knows how, physical violence”.
	"Mandy," said Father Abbot, "I had to let you off too lightly. In between giving you a punishment run and expelling you, there's not much I can do, and expulsion would just make your chaotic life even more chaotic. But the girls themselves have stepped in. Now you must fight to be accepted once again. An apology to Cecilia would be a good starting place."
	"I'm not apologising" said Mandy.
	"Then you'll have to plough your own path, Mandy" said Father Abbot, "Detention for you, for tying up Cecilia."
	Cecilia smiled.
	“And detention for you too Cecilia, for not calling out when you could have got someone to untie you and using it as an excuse to bunk off games.”
	Cecilia's smile dropped.
	“But I was gagged”, she protested.
	“Punishment run.”, said Father Abbot, “Please go Mandy, before I increase yours to a punishment run as well.”
	“This is not fair” said Cecilia, as Mandy left the door, “I was the victim, I was the one who tied up, and you are giving me a worse punishment than her. How was I supposed to call out when I was gagged? I'm leaving this school. You are so unfair. This school is unfair, full of unfair rules and unfair punishment runs, and you've got to admit to things you didn't even do, because otherwise everyone will hate you for it.”
	Father Abbot smiled, and suddenly Cecilia caught herself.
	“Would you say it's wrong to admit to something you didn't do, Cecilia?” he said, “I notice you didn't say 'Mandy did it' but 'it's obvious that Mandy did it'. And Mandy has admitted it. Now why would she do that if she wasn't the person responsible? Is this another of Mandy's crimes?”
	Cecilia grinned at him mischievously.
	"As you will," said Father Abbot, "now we'll see you at dawn tomorrow morning."





Chapter 6. A midnight feast

Albert finished the trap the next Saturday. It was a relatively simple modification, putting a drop-pin under the entry end of the see-saw, so that when the prey tipped it over the seesaw stuck and could not return to its previous position. However it was tricky to get right.
	James stole more carrots from the kitchen, and they were back in business.

Adam meanwhile was failing to hit notes at music.
"Adam," said brother Bernard, the music master, "can I have a quiet word with you?"
With some trepidation Adam let himself be taken aside.
"If you can't make the notes at the office, just keep quiet." said the brother, "Otherwise it puts the others off."
Adam said a few words in agreement, and left him. After two minutes alone in the corridor outside the chapel, his eyes began to fill with tears. He tried to stop them before anyone saw him, but blonde Mary was walking down the same way, passing the arched doorways with a confident stride.
	"Adam" she said, "why are you crying."
	Through sobs, Adam explained about the humiliation over music.
	"Was brother Bernard angry with you?" asked blonde Mary?
	"No" said Adam.
	"Then why are you crying?" said blonde Mary, genuinely perplexed. "Adam, I'm not sure this school is the right environment for you. Notice how tough and controlled everyone else is. Even Mandy. We haven't cracked her and she's been in Coventry for a week. Why don't you ask your parents if you can leave? I'm sure father Abbot would allow it."
	"No" said Adam, "it would be the same everywhere."
	"Well try not to cry" said blonde Mary, "it humiliates Abbey."


Abagail was shocked and disappointed that Mandy had hardly been punished, much less expelled, and even that her plot had backfired, landing Cecilia with yet another punishment run. She began to suspect that Father Abbot was favouring Mandy because of her background.
	"Learn to act, Cecilia", she told the girl as they left Mass, Cecilia still exhausted from her run. She had learnt the lesson of last time, and put maximum effort into her agonised legs, ignoring the taste of lactic acid in her throat and the stitch in her side, bravely pounding the rough track in a successful effort to beat fifteen minutes.
	"I tried," she said, "but he just saw straight through me."
	"And Mandy sneaked on you?" asked Abagail.
	"I don't think so, Abbey" replied Cecilia.
	"Then why did she go to see Father Abbot?" asked Abagail? "If it was nothing to do with her, it was nothing to do with her. It must have been to sneak."
	Cecilia didn't like to admit the truth, which was that Mandy had been afraid of being expelled. That was why she had falsely admitted guilt to Father Abbot, in a desperate attempt to stay at St Tom's. 
	Short Mary had not been privy to Abagail and Cecilia's plan, and so assumed that Mandy had been responsible for tying up Cecilia.
	"She thinks she can go round terrorising the whole of the first year" she said, "whilst Father Abbot just sits and does nothing. I don't call that being a good headmaster."

On Sunday James, Adam and Albert reinstalled Albert's modified trap in the ruined graveyard, with James and Albert hiding it over with brush whilst Adam kept lookout for patrolling monks or prefects. At one point brother Dominic came into view, but the boys just pretended to be talking, and were ignored. James baited the trap with fresh carrots.
	On Sunday James checked it, on Monday Albert, to no avail. Then on Tuesday it was Adam's turn. Taking a torch from the dormitory, he made his way from the calefactory after dark. It was rough underfoot with scrub and fallen stones, and slightly scary to think that he was in an ancient graveyard. However he put his fears to one side, and performed his duty to check the trap. The pin had dropped, and the seesaw was in the tipped position. At first Adam thought that the trap was empty, then when he shined his torch directly at the seesaw there was an unmistakable sound of something scuttling. "Albert's done it" he thought. They had caught a rabbit.
	Barely able to contain his excitement, Adam ran back to the calefactory. Albert and James were there. James hustled him out of the crowded room.
	"You're making it completely obvious what we're doing." he said.
	"A rabbit" said Adam, excitedly.
	"Well don't tell everyone. Just calm down. Have a cup of tea. We'll meet up in the dorm." James said, taking control of the situation. However Adam could see that he too was excited.

There was a frission of excitement before lights out. James put his watch on the top of his locker. "Give it two hours" he said.
The two hours passed slowly, like at Christmas time, with Adam unable to sleep but banned from speaking. Eventually James reckoned they were safe. The torches came on, and all five boys dressed in shoes, dressing gowns, and outdoor coats.
	Because of fire regulations the door from the house had to be left unlocked, so it was almost too easy to get out. The girls however had a fire escape and so were locked in. Adam climbed the escape and knocked at the window to wake Abagail. It took a while and more violent knocks than Adam would have liked, but eventually she stirred from her bed and got a nasty shock as Adam turned the torch on her.
	After thinking for a moment that she was to be murdered, Abagail realised it was Adam and the other boys. She unhooked the window from her side and Adam from his, then James came and passed it safely through the opening and onto the softness of Abagail's bed.
	Quickly Abagail woke the other three, with the exception of Mandy, and the girls dressed.

"Get some newspapers," said Albert, "I already have matches" 
That entailed an expedition to the girl's calefactory, undertaken by Abagail and Cecilia. Fortunately no-one seemed to be disturbed. Then, one by one, all nine made their way out of the girls' dormitory and down the fire escape.

	"How do you make sure the rabbit doesn't escape?" asked Sebastian.
	"We've thought of that" said Adam, "string".
	
	The trap was upended so that the rabbit sat in the bottom, and couldn't escape. The Adam tied the string into a lasso. The hardest part was getting two back feet of the rabbit into the lasso at the same time. It was obviously distressed, and trying to escape. However eventually they caught its feet and twined the string several times around. Then they did the same to the front paws, which were easier, though they had to avoid the rabbit's mouth.
	"Now we kill it" said Albert.
	"Me and James," said Adam, "Albert, you and the others go and make a fire down by the beach. We'll join you."
	"Have you done this before?" Adam asked James.
	James shook his head.
	Adam grabbed the rabbit firmly by the head and the shoulder. Because its legs were tied it could not struggle away. James bandished the knife, then hesitated. Then he placed it on the rabbit's neck and make a sawing motion.
	The rabbit struggled vigorously and blood spurted out. 
	"Do it, do it" Adam whispered, desperately.
	James brought down the knife firmly on the open wound, then dragged with the knife. The knife caught Adam's thumb and caused a deep cut. However Adam hardly noticed that, too busy holding the frantically thrashing rabbit steady. James ripped at the rabbit's throat again and again. Blood was everywhere and flowed over Adams chest. At last the rabbit lay still, its head half severed at the neck.
	Adam looked up, and saw that blonde Mary had stayed behind to observe them. "Go away" he told her, suddenly self-conscious. Blonde Mary left without saying a word.
	James hacked at the belly with a long, sawing cut, then they pulled the fur off like a jacket, exposing naked limbs. Now it looked like meat instead of an animal. James then made another, more surgical incision along the belly, and entrails and all manner of complex things spilled out. They separated these, and obtained two convincing carcass halves.
	"Just hide the offal" said James, "these will do".
	Adam saw a figure loom out of the darkness, by the inscription he had uncovered the week previously.
	"A monk" he whispered to James.
	"No" said James, just a trick of the light. Your imagination."
	"I was sure it was a monk." said Adam
	"Maybe blonde Mary then." suggested James, "If it was one of the monks, they're gone."

Meanwhile Albert and Sebastian had got a fire going on the beach. There was a metal grill which had previously been used for barbecues, so it was only necessary to damp the fire down with seawater, then cut the rabbit to pieces and cook the portions, as one would in a modern kitchen.

	"To you, Madame, the honour of instigating this feast" said Sebastian, offering the first piece to Abagail.
	Abagail flushed, and stuffed the succulent and now roast meat into her mouth with pleasure. In truth it may have been a little burnt on the outside and undercooked on the inside, but in the darkness she couldn't see and didn't care. This was the first really decent food since arriving at St Tom's. It was completely unlike supermarket meat, strong tasting and chewy.
	"If only we had something with it" thought Adam.

One rabbit didn't go far amongst nine people, and the last in the queue only got a bit of a leg. But everyone had something. They lay on the beach in the light of the dying fire, laughing and talking, warming themselves by the embers.
	James and Sebastian stripped off for a swim, but it was too cold, and the swim turned quickly into a brief paddle. Adam checked the sailing boats drawn up on the beach with interest.
	"How would we go about nicking one of those?" he asked.
	"Next time." said Albert.

It was time to take the girls back to their dorm. Mandy was still asleep in her bed. There was only one difference, the glass pane was not on Abagail's bed, but on the floor next to it.
	"Someone's been in." hissed James.
	"Or out" said Abagail.

The window had been left as a gaping hole, blowing cold air into the dorm, and so Mandy had swiftly awoken. She realised immediately that the others had left, and left her alone and out of it. She tried to pretend to herself that she didn't care, but the cold bit bitterly into the duvet, and it was impossible to go back to sleep.
	So she decided to dress and venture out. Quickly she slipped on her outdoor clothes, took a torch, and stepped onto Abagail's bed to make her way down the fire escape. She entered the yard between the main school buildings and the girls' boarding house. Sound travels far in the countryside, and she could hear excited voices from the ruins, close to where she had had the disastrous fight with Cecilia.
	Dipping her torch, Mandy eased herself up to the children. By now the main group had gone, and Mandy hid behind an old bit of ruined wall that might have been part of a tomb. She could overhear James and Adam discuss how to kill the rabbit.
	"I can't believe they are really going to do this" thought Mandy to herself. Suddenly, she saw blonde Mary, also carrying her torch dipped, and walking in the opposite direction from which the majority of children had departed.
	The two girls confronted each other through the gloom.
	"Mandy", said blonde Mary, "what are you doing here?"
	"What are you doing here?" asked Mandy.
	"Adam, Albert and James have caught a rabbit. We're going to have it. Mandy, they'll never let you live it down if they find you here. In fact they'll think you are sneaking on them. Go immediately, Mandy, dearest."
	She spoke quietly, then took position at Mandy's station to peer at the boys. There were two little pools of light illuminated by the boys' torches. The girls could just make out Adam holding the rabbit, and James preparing to strike. Both girls averted their eyes as the rabbit was killed. It really was too dreadful to watch.
	Then Adam looked up, and saw blonde Mary. He told her to go away, and blonde Mary obeyed. Mandy huddled further under the wall.
	The boys didn't see her and continued butchering the rabbit. Mandy became aware that a cowled figure was also watching them.
	"That's one of the monks" she thought, "blonde Mary was right, they'll think I've been sneaking on them."
	The monk continued watching the boys. Mandy switched off her torch and waited, frightened. Then the monk turned to her, as though he had seen her, and Mandy caught a glimpse of the face behind the cowl. Then suddenly the monk was gone. But for the rest of her life, Mandy would never forget that face. She remained rooted to her station, her heart frozen in pure terror. Adam and James passed carelessly past, swinging the carcass of the dead rabbit as they went. They passed within inches of Mandy without seeing her in the dark.
	Eventually Mandy summoned up the courage to return to the dormitory. She entered the empty window frame by the fire escape, and attempted to replace the glass. But it was too difficult for her to manage on her own. Forgetting that the pane had originally been on Abagail's bed, she replaced it on the floor, dressed in her nightclothes, and pulled the duvet tightly around herself.
	
	That night, for the first night she had been at St Tom's, Mandy didn't wet the bed.

Next morning, Matron was shocked to find Adam and James' bedclothes soiled with copious quantities of blood, feebly explained by a nasty cut on Adam's thumb. However there were no other obvious injuries, so Matron had to accept that this was the source.
	"How did that happen?" she asked Adam.
	"It was an accident", Adam explained, truthfully, "I was holding some wood whilst James whittled it, and his pocket knife slipped.", he added, less truthfully.
	"You shouldn't be playing with knives" said Matron, "and you should have taken this straight to me. Get me up, if necessary, it's what I'm there for. It will still heal, but it won't heal as nicely, now it has been left. You'll have a scar at the base of your thumb for the rest of your life. As for your pajamas, Lord knows. Will those ever come clean?"

	Adam missed Matins as Matron tended to the wound. He then let himself off music, which was the first lesson of the day. He rejoined the others for brother Robins' English lesson.
	Brother Robin had another poem for them. 

The Tyger

Tyger Tyger, burning bright,
In the forests of the night:
What immortal hand or eye,
Could frame thy fearful symmetry?

In what distant deeps or skies
Burnt the fire of thine eyes?
On what wings dare he aspire?
What the hand dare seize the fire?

And what shoulder, & what art,
Could twist the sinews of thy heart?
And when thy heart began to beat,
What dread hand? & what dread feet?

What the hammer? what the chain,
In what furnace was thy brain?
What the anvil? what dread grasp
Dare its deadly terrors clasp?

When the stars threw down their spears
And water'd heaven with their tears:
Did he smile his work to see?
Did he who made the Lamb make thee?

Tyger, Tyger burning bright
In the forests of the night:
What immortal hand or eye
Dare frame thy fearful symmetry?

 
"This," said brother Robin, "is the companion piece to the previous poem, 'The Lamb'", by the same poet. Who's going to volunteer to read it out?"
	Mandy and James put their hands up, and brother Robin chose James.
"So comments and criticisms." invited brother Robin.
"It's much the better poem" said Adam.
"Instantly you say that" said brother Robin, "but why? What makes you instantly pass such a judgment?"
"It's real," said Adam, "the lamb wasn't."
"Yet you have seen lambs. There are flocks of sheep running on the mainland less than a mile from this island. Have you ever seen a tiger?" asked brother Robin.
"In zoos" said Adam.
"That doesn't count," said Abagail, "it has to be a wild tiger."
"What I mean," said Adam, "is that it gives a realistic impression of life. Not everything can be sweet and tender, like the lamb."
"Surely the poem is about images of God" said brother Robin.
"So what is the reality of God?" asked blonde Mary, "tender and merciful, or vicious and judging people."
"Tender and merciful" said short Mary, "Jesus is compassion and love."
"Compassion includes the word 'passion'" said Cecilia, "I prefer the tiger. God loves it in all its fierceness, as much as he loves the lamb."
"He created it" said Abagail.
"The lamb is Christ" said Sebastian, "so is God also the tiger?"
"The lamb is God the Son," said Cecilia, "the tiger is God the Father."

Brother Robin was delighted with the way the discussion went. For prep, they had to write a comparison of the two poems.

That evening, Adam sat in the prep room with a pen in his hand, poised to write. He thought for some while, then began to put down his ideas


The Tyger and the Lamb

I think the most confusing lines of the poems are

When the stars threw down their spears
And watered heaven with their tears

The stars are the heavenly host of cherubims and seraphims, angels and archangels, powers, dominations, and thrones. They are boy angels not girl angels and they carry weapons. Even though they are boys they still cry at the horror of the tyger. But their tears water heaven, and make it fertile. Sometimes it is good to cry.
	The next lines tell us that Blake wants us to compare the two poems, which  I am doing right now. “Did He who made the Lamb make thee?”  Who made the lamb? It is what we say every day at Mass, of course, 
“Angus dei, qui tollis peccata mundi” Lamb of  God, who takes away the sin of the world. The lamb is food, it is there to be slaughtered. That’s what lambs are for. Br K|ieran says that the wool trade is not economic and a woolly fleece costs only 10p, so lambs are not bred for their wool as some people think. They are bred for eating. The lamb is not told this. It is living in a fool’s paradise, a world of illusion. It doesn’t even know who made it, or why.
	The lamb also eats. But it eats grass. The poem is saying that this is not enough. People cannot live on a diet of cabbages and boiled potatoes and be happy. That sort of food will make them ill and weak. They also need meat. Meat is nicer, but you have to kill something to get it. The lamb is called into being, it just says “gave thee”, the tyger is manufactured, with hammers, chains, anvils and furnaces, its heart beats and has its sinews twisted. Tygers take more effort to make than lambs.
	So is the tyger evil? That brings us back to the confusing two lines with which  I started. The stars cry. But their tears water heaven. The lamb dies, but it takes away the sins of the world. That’s why He creates the tyger, He is insanely ambitious, He will have the innocence of the victim and the glamour of the predator, at the same time. The poem starts with “could” and ends in “dare”. How could God create the tyger? Then we understand, and the question becomes, “how dare God take that sort of risk?”
	This I think is the meaning of the two poems, “the Lamb” and “the Tyger”. 
Adam put his pen down. It had taken about forty minutes to write that.

Ibrahim, meanwhile, was having difficulty. He could see that one was a poem about gentleness and one was a poem about fierceness, but beyond that bald statement he couldn't think of anything to say. He scribbled down a few words, then stared into space, wasting the time for prep.

   

Mandy had had a bad scare, but she couldn't talk to anybody about what she had seen, because no-one but blonde Mary was speaking to her, and that secretly.
	"Have you written to Chris, yet?" blonde Mary asked her, when the two were together in the dorm that evening.
	"No," said Mandy, "I'm not sure that I ought."
	"Look, he can get a message through to your mother, probably" said blonde Mary, "Isn't your mother important to you? I know I would do anything to get a letter from my mother, if she was forbidden from contacting me."
	"The social worker wouldn't like it." said Mandy.
	"Oh, social workers" said blonde Mary, "who cares what they think? It's what you want, Mandy sweetest, that matters. And you want to get a letter from your mother. Anyone would. Come on, do you have a pad?"
	"No, I'll get one from the office tomorrow" said Mandy.
	"Use mine" said blonde Mary, "I find it always helps to use quality notepaper. It sets off the letter in a much nicer way. And I always dab a little perfume onto the paper, just to give a hint of me. It make people much more receptive to what you say."
	She took out the notepaper, which was tinted pink round the edges and slightly yellowish in colour.
	"For goodness sake Mandy, don't use a ballpoint," blonde Mary protested, "you must have a fountain pen. Blue ink."
	Mandy got out her fountain pen, and complied.
	"Dear Chris," dictated blonde Mary, "I know this letter will come as a bit of a surprise to you. I am at St Thomas' More school in the Hebrides on a scholarship. I think of home every day and all the good times we had together. New paragraph. Chris, I want you to help me. My mother hasn't replied to my letter and I know she would never ignore me. It must mean that the letters are being held up in the prison. I would do anything for you to get a letter out from her. I know you have contacts and can do this. I love you very much. Also pass on my love to my dear mother. Love, Mandy. P.S. There must always be a postscript. What did you do with him, Mandy?"
	"PS I still have that Black Sabbath album you downloaded for me. I listen to it in the dorm in the evenings." suggested Mandy.
 	"That will do" said blonde Mary, "Now what is his full name and address?"

The letter was sent by the next boat. Blonde Mary, had begun to hang round with two third years, Olivia and Jade. They were beautiful, like her, and also from rich families. Blonde Mary felt more at home with them than with the other first year girls. She was tired of playing queen of the dorm, because it was a title hardly worth having. In any case she had a nagging sense that Abagail and maybe even Cecilia were more popular than she was. Her money counted for very little at St Tom's, because there was nothing she could spend it on, no way of getting better food or clothes than the ordinary girls, no real way of bestowing largess of the other girls. Blonde Mary had always thought of herself as special, not as just one of the crowd.  
	Olivia and Jade were also from the entertainment industry families. Olivia's mother was an actress, and Jade's father was a pop star who had been very successful in his youth, and who still kept a reasonable career going, though his name was no longer on everyone's lips. They had both been at St Tom's for two years, and were firm friends with each other.
	"Mary's the only one of the first years who's any fun" said Olivia to Jade, "short Mary is just a sourpuss, Cecilia is a brat, and Abbey has got too big an opinion of herself. As for Mandy, that dreadful thing, who let her into St Tom's?"
	"Oh Mandy's alright" said Jade, "you've got to understand she's the only one in her position. If we had three or four care home kids, she'd be fine. But as the only one, that's tough."
	"But she's vicious" said Olivia, "I've no objection to her as a person, but what's she doing at St Tom's?"
	"Well Abbey is also a vicious little creature" said Jade, "you're wrong, Olivia, we need people like Mandy in the school. Who else would listen to my Dad's music?"
	"Well, OK" said Olivia, "I've no objection to Mary. If she wants to make friends with Mandy, I won't hold it against her."
	"The other first years will," said Jade, "they've sent Mandy to Coventry."
	"Really?" said Olivia, "how childish."
	"So Mary can't admit to liking Mandy. I think she feels sorry for her. As do I. It's cruel." said Jade, "Yes, there's nothing so cruel as first years."
	"As if we've got any interest in their doings" said Olivia, "but Mary, yes, she's got something about her."
	So the two agreed to accept blonde Mary as a friend, and to tolerate Mandy.


Adam was uneasy about the figure of the monk. They had apparently got away with the exploits of the previous night, certainly Father Abbot hadn't asked for any culprits to own up after morning Mass, although you never knew exactly how much Father Abbot knew.
	He returned to the graveyard at lunchtime. The inscription was there, the trap was where they had left it, and blood from the rabbit still stained the ground, but otherwise there was nothing. He was aware that he was putting their activities in danger, should some monk or prefect chance upon him, so after a minute or two he left. It was perplexing. The monk had seemed too real to be, as James said, "a trick of the light". But had it been one of the brothers, surely he wouldn't simply have ignored a two boys out at night.
	The others were impatient to start football when Adam returned. The first years had a rare victory over the second years, despite the fact that Adam's mind was not on the game.
	"Why didn't you wait until evening to check the trap?" asked James.
	"I wanted to see if there was any evidence of that monk" said Adam.
	"There can't have been a monk" said James, "Adam, just forget it, will you? You'll get us all into trouble if you're not careful. And try to pass up to Sebastian. You missed a perfect chance with Sebastian in front of an open goal."

	The next day the first years played their next external game of five a side. It was with a comprehensive school in Saltcoats, on the mainland and local by Scottish standards.
	It was played indoors, in a sports hall marked out for many other games, so it was difficult to see where the goal area was. The Saltcoats boys all seemed the same - short, with short dark hair, and serious faces. It emerged later that they were all cousins or cousins once removed, the school drew pupils from a very closely-knit community.
	Saltcoats had most of the possession. Adam and Sebastian found themselves hard pressed to defend the goal from relentless Saltcoats attacks, with Sebastian doing the bulk of the work. Albert saved three good shots. Then an attack on the left flank, which Sebastian dealt with, was followed with a quick pass to a Saltcoats defender coming down on the right. Albert was at the other side of the net, so he had a shot at open goal. Adam ran forwards to intercept with his body, successfully, but with the confusing markings he had forgotten that it was in the goal area. Penalty.
	The Saltcoats boy put the ball straight into the top right hand corner of the net, and Albert didn't have a chance. However after that Saltcoats got too confident, pushing all their men forwards. Sebastian managed to get the ball up to James, who had a shot on goal. The Saltcoats goalkeeper saved it by a miracle, pushing it over the top of the bar. James got another shot five minutes later, but it hit the post and went out of bounds. After that Saltcoats thought twice and began to hang back. However they got lucky just before halftime, with a long shot bouncing past Albert and into St Tom's net.
	"Pull James back" urged Albert at half time, "I can't keep up this level of saves"
	James shook his head, and they went into the second half with James forwards and Ibrahim back. The game from that point on was effectively dead. Saltcoats didn't need any extra goals to win, and just sat on their lead. St Tom's outnumbered them three to two, or four to two including Albert, in their own half, and started getting possession. Time after time the ball was passed up to James, who could make nothing of it with no support. But it was enough to keep Saltcoats on their toes and not risk putting too many people forwards. 
	Eventually Saltcoats scored one more goal, battering past James, Sebastian and Adam by sheer force of playing, and effectively dribbling the ball into the net. However that was their only real chance. At full time, the score read 3 nil to Saltcoats.
	The boys shook hands. Being a day school, tea was just sandwiches and biscuits.
	"Bad luck with the penalty" said one of the Saltcoats boys to Adam.
	"I got confused by all the lines on the pitch" said Adam.
	"Then it's accidental" said the Saltcoats boy, "accidental entry into the penalty area is not considered a penalty."
	"Not if you play the ball" said another.
	"Isn't" said the first.
	"Here, I've got a copy of five-a-side rules" said Albert, he fingered it to find the right place. "Section 3.2 Entry to penalty area". He passed the book to the boy, "see."
	The Saltcoats boy looked embarrassed. "Isn't a penalty if it is accidental" he said. He passed the book to the second boy, "You check."
 	The second Saltcoats boy put a finger under the line. "Section 3.2 Entry to the penalty area" he said, "No one except the respectable goalkeepers may enter the penalty area. Punishment for - can't read that word - penalty kick. Note referees should distinguish between accidental and deliberate entry to or exit from the goal area. Only deliberate actions where the player plays the ball, tries to play the ball, or gains an advantage should be penalty-ised. Accidental entry or exit that has no affect on play should be ignored." He furrowed his brow, "So what is it?"
	"Adam deflected what would have been a goal, so it's a penalty" said Albert, "hard for us, but that's the rules"
  	Sebastian gave Albert a kick under the table.
	"Have you played much five-a-side before?" he asked the Saltcoats boys.
	"Not much", they admitted, "we play regular football, but we was asked to form a side, just for you. We volunteered."
	"Awfully good of you to agree to play us" said Sebastian, "it gets us out of our island prison."
	"You go to school on an island?" asked the Saltcoats boys.
	"That's right" said Sebastian, "sea all around. It prevents unauthorised escapes."
	"I couldn't do with that," said the Saltcote's boy, "how do you get to support your team?"
	"We can when they play us at home" said Albert.
	"He means one's favourite association football club", said Sebastian.
	"I don't support a team" said Albert.
	"You don't support a football team?" said the Saltcoats boy, incredulously.
	"Ex-rugby man", said Sebastian, hastily, "we've only been doing footie for the past few weeks".
	"It shows", said the Saltcoats boy.


	"Didn't you see" said Sebastian as they got into the minibus after the meal, "that those comprehensive chappies could hardly read? The first one, he was in utter panic when you handed him that rulebook. Albert, you'll really offend people."
	Albert looked contrite.
	"It's a completely different culture" said James, "different games, different attitudes, different everything."
	"They were trying to be nice to us" said Sebastian.
	"Well I'm glad I can read properly" said Adam, "it must be terrible to have to live like that."
	"Don't be so judgmental" said Sebastian.
	"At least we only went three down," said James.
	"Funny, isn't it" said Sebastian, "how three nil down seems like a victory. At least it was a playable match."
	"Boys", said brother Gwilliam, "you've got to show more spirit. Everyone was hanging back, apart from James. But when he got the ball up, there was no support. You need more spirit. And Adam, what were you doing? In a dream, as always, throwing away the first goal with a penalty. At least it wasn't a complete disaster, I suppose. But I want to see a bit more action from you from now on."
	At last the minibus returned to the dock and was loaded aboard the ferry. Brother Gwilliam paid the boatman, and they were back.
	This time Father Abbot announced the result at morning Mass. 
	"We can't win with all our players back" said James, at the postmortem.
	"Our object is only to avoid humiliation" said Sebastian, "look James, we'd have gone five, maybe ten down with a weaker defence. Our only hope is to kill the game, and then sneak in with a surprise goal. We've got to accept that we will always be the weaker team, because they can pick and choose, and we're stuck with who we've got, and that's Ibrahim and Adam."
	"I am the weakest link," said Adam.
	"No you're not" said Albert, "the team wouldn't be the same without you. Just try to keep out of the penalty area next time, kick the ball up, and you'll be fine."

	Abagail was getting restive again.
	"We need some action on the food" she said, "permanent action. One rabbit every couple of weeks isn't going to satisfy our hunger."
	"What do the second years and third years do?" asked Adam.
	"They smuggle stuff in from the supermarket" said Abagail.
	"And how do they manage that?" Adam asked.
	"Fifth years and sixth formers take them sailing" Abagail explained, "so they just drop them off at Tescos. Buy your tuck, hide it away in the bottom of the boat, and you've done it."
	"Why don't they take us sailing?" asked Adam.
	"Can't imagine" said Abagail.
	The two spent a moment in silence.
	"Adam," Abagail asked, "can we nick a boat?"
	"I checked them all that night we spent out" said Adam, "they're chained up and locked when not in use. It isn't that easy, Abbey. Then Tescos is closed at night. So it wouldn't do us any good, even if we could get hold of one."
	"Maybe we need a different tack" said Abagail, "but think of something quickly, Adam. Your sister is dying here."

	Adam went to discuss the matter with Albert.
	"We need to case the joint" was Albert's only reply, so that night the two of them got dressed and slipped away to the beach. Two sailing dinghies were drawn up on wheeled chassis, and chained by long chains which ran into the sand. The older pupils were taught to sail, and often took the younger ones out on trips. However not the first year. Adam and Abagail had seen to that.
	Adam and Albert pored over them with their flashlights.
	"The chains are permanent" Albert explained, "and they pass them through brackets in the boats' hulls. They have to be long in case a high tide comes along, and the chain holds the boat under water. There's some sort of concrete block under the sand. What I suspect is that its the same chain, passed through the concrete. That would be stronger than trying to anchor it."
	"So what can we do?" said Adam.
	"A hacksaw should get these chains off" Albert said, "but I don't like to think how long it would take. Hours. And you'd break a lot of blades."
	"That's not practical" said Adam, "And we need to cut two chains."
	"What we need to do" said Albert, "Is cut where the chain goes into the sand, and then replace the links with some sort of weak link, which we can easily cut. Then when we're done with the boat we replace the weak link, and nobody's the wiser. I suggest twisted wire."
	"But won't it eventually break?" said Adam, "and send the boat out to sea?"
	"Eventually" said Albert, and the boys laughed.
	They returned to the dorm and reported to James, Sebastian, and Ibrahim.
	"My parents have been on sailing holidays" said Sebastian, "I'm quite au fait with sailing boats. I think Cecilia has as well. Don't worry, we'll have a skilled crew."
	Adam went back to bed, thinking how this plan would work. Stealing a boat would get them off the island, but the question was what to do then.
	It was Abagail who came up with than answer.
	"Let's get a lamb."
	It was Sunday, and Albert, Adam and Abagail, as was becoming their custom, had climbed to the highest point on the island.
	"Abbey, I don't think there are any lambs" said Adam, "it's autumn."
	"A sheep then" said Abagail, "look, you can see hundreds of sheep, on the hillside on the mainland. All we need is to capture one and kill it. The meat will last nine of us a week."
	"Sheep belong to farmers" said Adam.
	"Oh yes" said Abagail, "and the land belongs to the farmers as well. No-one asked us who it should belong to, but we were born in this country. Look at the sea, all around us. Sometime soon, someone will be claiming to own that. I just don't buy property rights. It's a way of depriving us of what we need to live. You can't own another living creature, that's arrogance."
	"What about the boats" said Adam, "don't they belong to the school?"
	"To which we pay fees" said Abagail, "you can worry too much about who owns what. There are hundreds of sheep, and we will put the boats back."
	"It's starting to get cold to come up here" said Albert.
	"Yes," said Abagail, "it's a bleak island. Why can't we live in the South Seas, and sit under coconuts all day. And not have to do algebra."
	"How's the lobster pot?" asked Adam.
	"Nearly finished," said Albert.
	"Albert" asked Abagail, "what does lobster thermidor taste like?"
Chapter 7. All at sea 


	"What are we going to do with Ibrahim?" brother Robin demanded to know, "look, I want you to compare these two boys' work. Here is Adam's, and here is Ibrahim's. Is it possible, is it fair, to put those two boys into the same class?"
            The brothers were meeting together to discuss the running of the school. Ibrahim was a concern to them all. In every single subject he was falling behind.
	"We can hardly set when we have a policy of admitting only ten pupils for each year" said brother Dominic. 
	"He's just opted out" said brother Robin, "no attempt to participate in class, no serious attempt at any work. Then look at how he relates to the other boys. Just follows along."
	"He is perfectly intelligent" said brother Jumbo, "it's just that our academic standards are so high. I tend to agree with brother Dominic. Maybe another school."
	"So we expel Mandy for violence, Ibrahim for stupidity, and Adam for extreme emotional sensitivity" said Father Abbot, wryly, "brothers, I just cannot pursue such policies and keep St Tom's financially viable."
	"Just see the difference between my best pupil and my worst" said brother Robin, giving father Abbot the two pieces of prep.
	"Who is your best pupil?" asked Father Abbot.
	"Adam" said brother Robin.
	Father Abbot read the two pieces of prep curiously.
	"Well well," he said, "it appears Adam does not like our St Tom's menu. But a very sensitive, if immature response. Ibrahim needs waking up. Now who better to do this, than Adam?"
	"Adam is too much of a loner", said brother Dominic, "he will co-operate with other boys, but his aims, his thoughts are his own."
	"Well he needs to become less selfish" said Father Abbot, "Ibrahim is never going to win any academic accolades. But basic competence can be taught, and more importantly, it can be caught. We just need to work out how to do it, if we are to keep Ibrahim at St Tom's."
	
	Mandy received a letter back from Chris. To her excitement, as she opened it, there was another letter enclosed, from her mother. Somehow Chris had smuggled the letter out. She read her mother's letter first.

Dear Mandy,
	I do not know if you will ever get this letter, as I have been forbidden from writing to you. However Chris came to visit me in jail, and agreed to smuggle it out for me.

Life is difficult in prison. We are often in cells for 23 hours of the day, coming out only for one meal and to slop out in the morning. The food is OK but there is not enough, and I am always hungry. 

I think about you, Mandy, every day. You are the most precious thing in my life. I hope only that some day soon they will release me, and we can be together again. I wish I wasn't in here, but I was shopped by somebody, betrayed in exchange for a light sentence for themselves.

The other women can be aggressive and bullying, and there are certain things I need to stop them from hurting me, which Chris can supply. Be good to Chris, Mandy. Remember that we love you always. You can send letters to me through Chris, he knows how to get things in and out of prison, even though it takes some time.

Your loving Mum

 
Chris's letter read

Dear Mandy,
	I've managed to get a letter out from your Mum, as requested.

It's not safe to exchange letters openly like this, or someone may become suspicious. Please destroy this letter after reading it, and also the one from your Mum. In future I will meet you personally, and take letters by hand. I have a boat. I will be sailing on the far side of the island at midnight on Friday. Please take a torch and flash three short flashes followed by three long flashes, to show me you are ready to meet me.

	Yours,
          			Chris.


Mandy wondered if she should show these letters to blonde Mary. In the event, she decided not to. There was something she didn't entirely trust about the heiress. She destroyed Chris's letter, but couldn't bring herself to destroy the one from her mother.
	"What does 'there are certain things I need to stop them' mean?" she wondered to herself,  "and how could Chris supply these?".

	Adam and Albert were not getting much sleep. Albert stole a hacksaw and a supply of blades from the woodworking shop. The boys sneaked out of the dorm and down to the beach, and began to work on the chains. It was hard work, crouching down in the dark, excavating sufficient area of sand with their hands to expose the chain and also fit the hacksaw in. They took it in turns, one holding the torch, one filing away. The sand rubbed at Adam's hand as he rhythmically moved the hacksaw fro and forth. After a short while, it began to hurt. Then sand got into the blade, and began to snag it.
	"We need a water supply" said Albert "to keep the sand down."
	There was an old tin which they filled with seawater. Washing the blade every so often helped. They were tired and ready to go to sleep, and had made maybe quarter of an impression on one side of one link.
	"This is not a goer" said Adam.

The next night, Albert brought out a monkey wrench, and a big piece of wood. They dug into the sand, as before. Now Albert immobilised the link of the chain with the money wrench, and Adam stabilised it with the wood. Suddenly the cutting started to go better. They still wore out several blades, but the link was cut and the chain sprang free. Albert twisted wire round where the link had been, to replace the chain.
	Then it was the other chain. With the experience of the first, this came easier. The link was excavated, immobilised, and then cut. Albert then twisted the thin wires round and round to make a temporary link, as before. They replaced the sand and scuffed it about a bit. The sea would cover it, just, at high tide, and no-one would know what they had done.
	The only problem was getting back to the dorm. Somehow, the latch had been locked shut.
"Looks like we're out for the night" said Adam.
"It's too cold" said Albert.
The first year dorm was on the first floor. Fortunately below it there was only a cleaners' room, not any occupied room. Getting onto the window ledge of the cleaner's room was easy. However neither Albert nor Adam fancied attempting to climb, in the darkness, up to the window above.
	"What can we do?" asked Adam.
	"I can't shinny up" said Albert, "not without any light, anyhow".
Eventually they got a long stick from the monastery garden. Adam climbed on Albert's shoulders, and the stick reached to the dorm window. Adam tapped, at first gently, and then more vigorously. Eventually James' white face came out. He opened the window.
	"Shhh" Adam warned him.
	James went down and unlatched the door, and the boys came in through the conventional entrance.
	"Someone locked it" said Adam.
	"Who?" asked James, "it wasn't any of us."

 The feast was arranged for that Friday. Adam and Albert were suffering from lack of sleep.
"Adam" said brother Jumbo, "you know dis. What is 6a + 7a?"
"11a, Sir" said Adam, wearily.
"Really Adam, 6 + 7 equals 11? How? You know better dan dis. 6 + 7?"
Adam counted on his fingers, "thirteen".
"So if a is 2 and a half, what is the value of dis expression?"
"Twenty six and a bit, Sir"
"A bit? Now don't cheek me." brother Jumbo was getting annoyed, "write it out if you cannot do mentally."
"Twenty six plus seven and a half, Sir"
 "Which is?"
"Thirty one and a half, no, I mean thirty three."
"Adam, try to stay wake wake" said brother Jumbo.

The rest of the class were fine, excepting Albert, who was also obviously half asleep. That evening, neither of them could do any prep worthy of the name.

	Blonde Mary was also feeling a bit under the weather. She had been hanging about with Olivia and Jade, and the two had been acting a little bit funny, giggling to each other and poking each other.
	"We've decided to tell you" said Olivia, "Jade and I smoke."
	"Oh, I don't want to get into smoking" said blonde Mary, "you never get off it".
	"Not cigarettes, silly" said Olivia, "this is much better. It calms the nerves, and is less addictive."
	"I'm really not sure" said blonde Mary.
	"Jade and I smoke all the time" said Olivia, "and it hasn't done us any harm. Then, when we're home, we're off it. It's just to relieve the tedium of school. I'm not saying it is harmless, but it is the most harmless drug that there is. Gentler than cigarettes, and doesn't make you aggressive like drink."
	They had wandered off into the ruins.
	"Here's where we smoke" said Jade, "it's safe here".
	It was a ruined chapel of some sort, next to the graveyard where the boys had killed the rabbit. 
	The three girls sat down, and Jade and Olivia placed a leather pack on the ground. It contained some brown shredded stuff, and a stick of what looked like very old and liquid toffee.
	Olivia took a cigarette paper, then joined a second one to it at an angle. She applied a lighted match to the flap, and it burnt, almost miraculously going out as the flames reached the join. Then she added the brown shredded stuff, and kneaded off tiny crumbs of the toffee-like substance. It was then rolled up to make a cigarette.
	Olivia lit the cigarette and took a puff. Then she offered it to blonde Mary, who refused. Jade took a puff.
	"Try some" said Jade, and offered the cigarette again to blonde Mary. This time blonde Mary accepted. She took the smoke into her mouth, and it felt hot and dry inside. She breathed it out.
"See" said Jade, "it's harmless."
	Jade and Olivia took a puff each.
	"This time" said Jade, "relax, and inhale."
	Blonde Mary did as she was told.
	"You see" said Olivia, "this can help people to relax and chill out after a stressful day at school. Yet the government keeps it from us. Why? Because they are taking money from drugs smugglers. They know to keep the money flowing, they've got to keep it illegal. It's perfectly natural, just a herb."
	"Yeah, I feel OK", said blonde Mary. In fact she felt almost nothing, maybe slightly excited at what she was doing.
	"You've got to smoke three or four times to really feel the effect" said Olivia, "first time is nothing."
	"Where do you get it from?" asked blonde Mary.
	"Oh, that would be telling" said Olivia, "suffice it to say, we need to ration it out."

Next day, however, blonde Mary was feeling really headachy, and not at all like concentrating on brother Jumbo's algebra class. However she kept her head down, and he didn't notice her.

	
	Mandy had been worrying how she would get out of the dorm to meet Chris. She wasn't entirely sure she wanted to. However she understood the objection that, if more than one or two letters were exchanged, someone might get suspicious and intercept them. However, surely, she thought, seeing someone at midnight was much more compromising. In any case, how could she get to meet Chris? The only way out was through the window, and Abagail surely would not co-operate with her.
	She therefore decided to scratch the whole idea. She would go to bed as normal, and wake up as normal. Chris would have to find some other way of getting in touch. Which he could do, she thought to herself.
	On Friday, Mandy was awoken by giggles and swaying torches and the sounds of her roommates getting dressed. Knowing that she was excluded, she feigned sleep. Within half an hour, the window was out of its frame, and she had the dorm to herself. She checked her watch. It was about eleven O'Clock.
	Mandy considered this to be some sort of sign. So she pulled on her clothes and made her way down the fire escape. It was a long trek in the dark to the other side of the island, but the path was fairly well-trodden, and she knew the way. In about half an hour Mandy had made it. Looking out to sea, she could see a single light. "Was that Chris?", she wondered. She aimed her torch at the light bobbing out to sea. Dot dot dot dash dash dash she signalled. Then again. Dot dot dot dash dash dash.
	There was a red light next to the light, only brighter. Dot dot dot, dash dash dash. Mandy knew that it had replied. Imperceptibly at first, the light began to get nearer.
	There was another jetty on this side of the island which was almost never used, but which the boatman had used to drop her off some weeks ago. It had been built in the Middle Ages by the original monks, then renovated as an emergency berth for boats caught out by storms. Mandy made her way down here, and signalled again with her light. She could hear the soft purr of an engine in the distance, carrying far in the night sea air. Eventually the light came so close that she could even make out the boat in the cone of illumination it cast. A rope was thrown onto the quay, and three men got out, one of them Chris.
	Mandy ran to them, and Chris picked her up and hugged her.  
	"Who's a lucky girl then?" Chris said.
	"Thank you for coming to see me" said Mandy.
	"Thank you? Mandy, you're talking posh already" said Chris, "come on, it's cold out here. Let's go back into the boat."
	The boat was a small motorboat, probably used for pleasure. The top deck came right the way up to the top of the hull, forming a covered space that could sleep two people or four at a pinch. There was a fridge and a microwave, and a shower. The toilet however was just a potty which had to be emptied by hand over the side. It was surprising how much convenience could be crammed into such a small space.
	"These are Lionel and Mike" explained Chris, "friends of mine. How are you doing at school?"
	"Oh, love it" Mandy lied.
	"Good, do you have lots of friends?" asked Chris.
	"There are ten in my year." Mandy told him.
	"And what about the older ones?" asked Chris.
	"Don't have as much to do with them, but they're OK" said Mandy.

Mandy didn't much like the look of Lionel and Mike. Lionel was heavily built, with a heavy jaw, and tattoos on his arms. His nose had been broken, and he had an aggressive air. Mike was smoothly shaven, and smelt slightly of aftershave and hair conditioner. He looked plausible, like a salesman.
	"Mandy" said Chris, "do you have a letter for your Mum?"
	"No," said Mandy.
	"That's cool" said Chris, "no letter. You'd better write one. Do we have pen and paper?"
	Mike drew a pen from his jacket pocket. It took a bit of a search to locate some notepaper.
Mandy began to write.
	"Keep it cheerful" said Mike, "when people are in prison they don't want to know about all your problems."
	Mandy wrote a breezy, optimistic letter. It took her about twenty minutes. Chris checked it over. "That'll do" he said.
	"Now Mandy," he said, "I do this for you, so will you do something for me, for your Mum's sake?"
	"What?" asked Mandy.
	"Mike, Lionel and I really want a way in to St Tom's. And you're our way in. Do you want to be a popular girl, and have lots of friends?" Chris asked her.
	"Yes," said Mandy, "I do"
	"Well we're not asking you for very much. Just an action. But we can pay you very well for it. Or if you want, you can do it as a service to your friends, for free." He opened a drawer in the tiny kitchen, and pulled some plastic wraps out. "Mandy, do you know what these are?"
	"Yes" said Mandy, "it's cannabis resin"
	"No fooling you" said Chris, "smart girl you are. Yes, it's cannabis, and there's a huge demand for it at school. So I'm giving you this, totally for free. But don't smoke it yourself, that's a loser's game, and you're smart. Give it to the other girls. Or sell it. It's worth ten pounds for each wrap, so that's two hundred pounds of stuff you've got here. Not two hundred pounds to me and you, of course. Ten pounds is the street price. You pay more like five. So you can make money, or make yourself popular, or both. In fact I recommend both."
	"I'm not sure I want into this" said Mandy.
	"Mandy" said Chris, "everyone does it. Smart girls, rich girls. Just check around and you'll see it's the truth. I'll give it to you. You just take it, and think. Do I want to be accepted? Because this is the way."
	"If I'm found out, I'll be expelled" said Mandy.
	"Mandy" said Chris, "do you think Father Abbot can expel everybody who is caught with drugs? Everybody does it. He can't. You're not being realistic here. I'm not saying wave it in his face. But he knows, and he doesn't care. It keeps the school calm. Probably he took it too, as a student. Everyone does. It's part of being grown up."
	Mandy was defeated.
	"Now is Friday convenient for you?" asked Chris.
	"Not really" said Mandy, "I made it today by chance."
	"Then when is convenient, when can we meet?" Chris asked.
	"There isn't a convenient time. We're supposed to be in school, seven twenty-four. But maybe Saturday evening, before Compline."
	"Before Compline?" asked Chris, baffled.
	"It's the nighttime prayer of the Church. immediately before we go to bed." Mandy told him.
	"Mandy" said Chris, "you are a little delight. How did you manage to end up here?"

Mandy left the boat with many more hugs and kisses, carrying her stash of cannabis resin. After she had left, Chris turned to Lionel and Mike.
	"A little goldmine," he said, "she's going to be a little goldmine."
	"You'd better be right" said Mike, darkly, "I don't invest in boats for peanuts."

Meanwhile the other nine children had run down to the boats. Albert swiftly unwired the dinghy. The chains were looped forwards and stowed in the hold of the boat. There was an immediate problem. The boat would carry six at a pinch, not nine.
	Abagail grabbed first place, and Cecilia and Sebastian were the two sailors, so that left three others. Adam and Albert had cut the dinghy free, and couldn't exactly be excluded, and the obvious sixth person to take was James. That left Ibrahim and the two Marys fuming.
	"Sorry," said Adam, "we didn't have room for everyone"
	"Don't need your apologies" said blonde Mary, crossly.

Ibrahim made his solitary way back to the dorm. He was entirely fed up. Unsuccessful in everything he tried at St Tom's, now the only boy to be excluded from the others' mischief. This last failure really rankled, but he did not know what to do about it.
	The two Marys, meanwhile, went back to discover that Mandy was missing.
"She's gone to sneak on us" said short Mary.
"Well let her" said blonde Mary, "why should I care. It's their trip."
"She is the most obnoxious person in this year, if not the entire school" said short Mary, "but I kind of agree with you. It's their trip, let them pay the price of it. And let Mandy pay the price for sneaking."
	Blonde Mary was entirely irritated, but she couldn't handle short Mary on her own. The two girls were just discontentedly getting to sleep, when Mandy came in through the window.
	"Mandy," said blonde Mary, "where have you been?"
	"You shouldn't be talking to her" said short Mary, "did I hear a little noise?"
	"I think we've got a pussy cat" said blonde Mary.
	"Yes," said Mandy, "scratch, scratch, claws out, nasty pussy. The others aren't here to protect you now, short Mary, so I just want to say that you are the ugliest, nastiest, cattiest little creature I have ever met in my life, and that is saying something. Oh yes, believe me, that is saying something. Now where's Abbey and Cecilia?"
	"Gone on a hunting trip" said blonde Mary, "we were disinvited."
	"Hunting trip?" said Mandy, eyes wide open.
	"Yes, Abbey has taken it into her head to capture and eat a sheep. Unfortunately there wasn't room in the boat for all of us, so some couldn't be invited. The expedition has now departed." Blonde Mary was beginning to feel better already, "Hunting isn't quite appropriate for a Barbie doll like me."
	"Me neither" said Mandy, "I hate cruelty to animals. Anyway, I've been to see Chris."
	"Maybe talk about it later" said blonde Mary, with a glance at short Mary.
	"When that objectionable creature is not present? I quite agree." said Mandy.
	Thus at peace, the two girls went to bed, leaving short Mary to wonder exactly what had happened.

	  
 	The six children wheeled the dingy into the sea. The moon was full and gave a reasonable degree of light, and Sebastian showed them how to unfurl the sails. 
	"You balance the dinghy with your body" he explained, "don't worry if it capsizes. You right it again and climb back in. But we shouldn't capsize, because I'm only letting the sail half out and the breeze is gentle. This is an expedition, not a race."
	The predominantly white sail showed up clearly in the moonlight.
	"Watch out" called Sebastian, as the boom made its first swing. The sail filled out and the boom travelled back again, causing the children to duck their heads.
	Cecilia grabbed the tiller. Somewhat chaotically, the vessel began to run from the shoreline. They were off. It was an awkward journey, because the boom kept swinging overhead and the boat kept threating to unbalance.
	"James and Albert, you balance" Sebastian said at last, "Adam and Abagail, just lie in the bottom, please".
	It was easier lying in the bottom, but more awkward and frightening. The vessel lurched this way and that in the waves, and as the wind caught it and was smoothed. However Sebastian and Cecilia seemed to know what they were doing.
	"Where are we going?" asked Cecilia.
	"Just aim for the lights" said Sebastian.
	After they had got near the coast, which only took a few minutes, Sebastian changed tack and moved down it.
	"We need a beach" he said.
	"There's a beach just south of the village" said James, "you can see it from the monastery".
	"I can't see," said Sebastian, "if we hit rocks, we've had it."
	"We've just got to take the risk" said Cecilia, "if there were rocks they'd be marked. Run us aground."
	"This could get very sticky" warned Sebastian.
	"Too late" said Cecila, "pull up the centre flap".
	The centre flap was a kind of stabilising device that projected vertically from the boat's keel into the water. It was hinged so the boat could be run aground. Cecilia gave a sharp twist to the tiller and the boat turned through ninety degrees, running  straight for the shore. There was a crunching sound underneath, and Adam thought for a minute that they were about to be wrecked, then the other children gave a cheer.
	The boat had run aground in maybe one foot of water, on a sandy beach quite near to the shore.
	"Set anchor," said Sebastian, and threw out a hook on a chain. He also threw out the chains that Adam and Albert had severed, for good measure.
	"I'll stay to guard the boat", Sebastian said, "hunting party, proceed."
	The children all got their feet wet leaving the boat. Then they had to go through some sand dunes, and cross a barbed wire fence, which would have been easy in daytime, but at night tore at their clothes.
	"Matron will kill me" said Abagail, "that's done in the front of my skirt."
	The sheep ran away at their approach.
	"How is this going to work" asked James, "if we can't catch one."
	"Albert and I have the answer to that one" said Adam, "a lasso. We'll get one of the sheep with that."
	Cecilia laughed. "Townies", she said, "I was brought up with animals, when I used to ride my horse Trumpert. You don't catch sheep with a lasso. You'll just panic the flock. No, just see, one will come to me."
	She made the other children wait in a corner of the field, then she went to the centre of the field and lay down. Sure enough, the flock was soon around her. Moving slowly, she brought the whole flock, not directly to the corner, but to the edge of the field, close to where the other children were. Then she took one sheep, and took hold of its head, lifting its head up high. She dragged it slightly unwillingly over to the corner. The other sheep sensed that something was up, and began to move away. However they didn't panic.
	"OK, all of you" said Cecilia, "just gently round it. The children formed a semicircle round the single sheep. Cecilia still held it by its head. "Now pass me the rope." Within a minute she had the lasso over the sheep's hind legs, but not so tight that it would notice. "OK now" said Cecilia, "who's going to kill it?"
	James stepped forwards.
	"We've got to lift it up so that the blood flows. So you other three, hold it. Cecilia pulled the lasso tight, and suddenly the sheep realised its danger, but it was too late, Adam, Abagail and Albert held the rope, and there was no escape. It was so heavy that they could barely lift it.
	James took the knife out, and placed it at the throat of the animal. But he couldn't bring himself to do it. Cecilia laughed.
	"James, you can't, with that little knife".
	It would have been pure butchery, the children realised. The animal was so large relative to them that it was a much more enormous thing to kill a sheep than a rabbit.
	"What shall I do?" asked James, uselessly.
	"I think we've just got to call it quits" said Cecilia, "sorry Abbey".
	They untied the sheep, gave it a pat on its rump, and off it went, none the worse for wear.
	James looked disconsolately into the ground.
	"Come on" said Adam, "never mind".
	Sebastian wasn't too surprised to see them come back empty handed. The tide had gone out slightly, so they had to take off their shoes and get trousers wet with salt water again, pushing the dinghy off. Then Cecilia took the tiller again and they were course set, back for the island.
	"How do we know where it is?" asked Cecilia.
	"I know the pattern of lights" said Sebastian, "don't worry, you can tell the monastery a mile off. There can't be any rocks near the jetty, or we'd have heard of them."
	"What's that light?" said Cecilia.
  	"Just another boat" said Sebastian.
	"Out looking for us" said Cecilia, "why else would it be so close in to the island?"
	"We've no lights showing" said Sebastian, "don't worry, they won't find us."
 
	Otherwise the journey back was similar to and just as exciting as the journey from. Albert and James had got a bit complacent by now, and nearly capsized the vessel due to over-confident correcting, but the dinghy continued on its wobbly way. They ran it ashore on the beach. The tide was out by now.
	"We've got to get it back to the chains" said Adam.
	"We can't" said Sebastian, "It's too far out. We can't carry it far enough, through one foot of water."
	"Well how do the sixth formers do it?" asked Adam.
	"They're sixth formers, and they've got the light, and if it's really far out they get other sixth formers to help them drag it in. We're not strong enough," Sebastian told him, "there's no way we're going to get this baby up the beach, until high tide."
	"We hadn't thought of that" said Adam.
	"So I can set anchor, but I'm not sure the anchor will hold it. This dinghy might drift away,   and anyway it will be obvious someone has taken it."
	"So what do we do?" asked Adam.
	"Someone stays with it, until morning" said Sebastian.
	"Sebastian and I are the sailors, so it's got to be one of us" said Cecilia.
	"You've been in enough trouble recently" said Sebastian, "I'll stay with it."
	"And me too" said Adam.
	"OK, that's settled" said Sebastian, "the rest of you sneak back to your dorms, Adam and  I stay with this dinghy, until dawn."
	"Thanks for volunteering" said Sebastian, as the others left, "it would have been awfully lonely, taking the rap for this, myself."
	The two boys remained with the dinghy. It became cold. The boy's trousers were wet from launching and relaunching the dinghy on the beaches, and their upper garments had been wet by spray. In the excitement of the journey they hadn't noticed, but now cold began to bite through to their flesh. Adam also felt hungry and thirsty. The dinghy became stranded at low tide, and they could move off it and onto the beach, then it floated again as the tide came back in. It was floating at anchor when Sebastian and Adam were discovered, by an astonished school, on its way to Matins.

	Father Abbot naturally had them both called in, the moment the dinghy was secured.

	Adam was too tired to really care.
	"So, Adam and Sebastian," said Father Abbot, "let's hear your explanation."
	"We took a dinghy for a joyride" said Sebastian, "but we couldn't return it to its proper moorings. Hence we had to remain with it until sunrise".
	"You sailed a dinghy at night?" said Father Abbot, "what did you do for lights?"
	"We didn't have any" admitted Sebastian.
	"And what about lifejackets?" said Father Abbot.
	"We can all swim" said Sebastian.
	"Sebastian," said Father Abbot, "dinghies are designed to capsize if caught too strongly by the wind. So if you are sailing in summertime in the Mediterranean, or even in Britain on your holidays, the boat turns over, and you laugh and upright it, and it is a bit of fun. The Hebrides are not like that. The sea is cold. You can survive maybe ten minutes, then you will start to have problems. Hypothermia will set in, your muscles will begin to fail, you won't be able to keep yourself afloat any longer. Certainly not without a life jacket. Then you were sailing in the dark. How would you be sure of getting all your people back into the boat? Could you be sure of being able to right it, with no light? Don't you understand how stupidly dangerous this stunt was?"
	Sebastian looked at the ground.
	"What about you Adam?" asked Father Abbot, "have you had any experience sailing dinghies?"
	"No, Sir," said Adam, "that was the first time."
	"So you allowed someone, for their very first time sailing, to sail at night, without lights, and without life jackets?" said Father Abbot, "anything could have happened. Now you make take the attitude that if you die then that is two less idiots in the world, and I have sympathy with that. However I have a responsiblity to send you back from St Tom's to your parents alive, not lost at sea presumed dead. We don't even allow first years to sail, in daylight and under supervision. You're too young to be safely given charge of a vessel. Now tell me honestly, how many people were in that boat?"
	"Six" said Sebastian.
	"Six" repeated Father Abbot, "and what is the safe capacity?"
	"I don't know" said Sebastian.
	"It's four" said Father Abbot, "how did you get six people into one dinghy anyway?"
	"The twins lay in the keel" said Sebastian.
	"I see," said Father Abbot, "and you considered that to provide sufficient stability?"
	"It didn't capsize" said Sebastian.
	"By luck," said Father Abbot, "human passengers do not make good ballast. Fortunately those are utility dinghies, not racing dinghies, and they won't capsize quite as easily. But all the same, you were lucky. Don't misinterpret luck for skill, Sebastian, a competent sailor would never have set out. Now you understand that I have a responsibility to keep you safe, and that means making sure that nothing like this ever happens again. So how am I going to do that?"
	"You could lock us in at night" said Sebastian.
	"St Tom's is a school" said Father Abbot, "not a medium security prison. Of course we could put bars on the windows and locks on the doors, and make it totally impossible for you to get out of the dorms at night. But I don't want to run the school like that. On the other hand I might have to, if the alternative is bodies floating in the Irish Sea."
	"You could put us in detention" said Sebastian.
	"I'd have to put you in for at least a week" said Father Abbot, "or it would be no deterrent. But from experience, too much academic work turns boys off as much as it improves them. You are both extremely able. Adam, in particular, you've got far more important things to be doing here than messing about at night. Didn't you take the hint, when Brother Dominic locked the door on you?"
	"So you knew" said Adam.
	"Give us some credit," said Father Abbot, "as I said, St Tom's is not a prison. However we do know who is coming in and out of the front door. Adam, you can't do your academic work if you never get any sleep, and you can do well academically. Don't cheat yourself. However that is beside the point. What am I to do to make sure this never happens again?"
	"You could put on duty helping out in the kitchen" said Adam, "that would be a deterrent."
	"I'll think about that" said Father Abbot, "now I need a solemn promise that, no matter what, there will be no more night sailing. Do I have that?"
	"We promise" said Sebastian and Adam.
	"You two boys have at least had the honesty to remain with the vessel and own up to what you have done" said Father Abbot, "so I trust that you will keep your promise. I will be asking the others to own up. I strongly suggest that you tell them to do so, because I already know who they are."
	He dismissed them. "Oh, and Adam" he said as they walked out of the door.
	"Yes Sir?" said Adam, turning back.
	"Why wasn't Ibrahim invited?" asked Father Abbot.
	"We could only fit six in the dinghy" said Adam.
	"Maybe you want to think about that" said Father Abbot.

After Mass Fr Abbot demanded that those on the boat own up come and see him at breaktime.

	"How's he going to know?" asked Abagail, over the breakfast porridge. "Say we frame Mandy for this. And short Mary. She's getting on my nerves, of late."
	"How would you do that?" asked Cecilia, "and keep quiet. Mandy will overhear you."
	"We don't go up to see Fr Abbot", said Abagail, "then at lunchtime we put yours and my wet kit into the boys' dorm. We grab Mandy and short Mary's clothes, go down to the sea, and wet them. Then we point the finger at them. Simple."
	"I can see this getting unstuck" said Cecilia, "like last time. Abbey, be realistic sometimes. Fr Abbot's really annoyed about this. We've gone too far. He's not going to stand for any messing about. Not by me, especially. I can't tell you how many times I've been in trouble. 
	 "Do we have to own up?" asked blonde Mary, "I mean, we were on the beach, but we missed the best part of the trip. Shame, it sounded like a real swell time."
	"Swell is the word I'd use" said Cecilia, "the worst part was when Sebastian had to guess how to steer us onto the beach. If he'd got his navigation wrong it would have been onto the rocks. Crunch. End of dinghy. End of us, probably, in that cold water. It was a pretty stupid thing to do."
	"I thought he was an experienced sailor" said blonde Mary.
	"Like he's had a few lessons on the lakes, with his parents watching" said Cecilia, "no, I seriously thought maybe that would be it."
	"Well you should have said", blonde Mary told her, "if something is too dangerous, it's too dangerous. You're not obliged to put yourself at risk. Have the strength of character to speak out."
	"The thing is I didn't want to be the one to spoil the fun" said Cecilia, "it's stupid, I know, but I'd rather be drowned than hated."
	"If you're frightened you can show that you're frightened" said blonde Mary.
	"I was in the bottom of the keel" said Abagail, "keeping the dinghy stable. If I'd have panicked we would have capsized, for sure."
	"Didn't you realise at that point that the boat was overloaded?" asked blonde Mary, "you took an unnecessary risk."
	"The thing is, it's probably more stable with more weight in the bottom" said Cecilia.
	"And in any case, Mary" said Abagail, "what's the worst that can happen? The boat goes over and we drown. No more school. No more going back to my horrible family. That's an advantage of having a horrible life. At least you can have some fun losing it."
	"Abbey", said blonde Mary, "you're not thinking rationally."
	"You're just jealous that you weren't there," said Abagail, "Mary, don't own up. The boat had nothing to do with you. Really."
	"Come on," said Cecilia, "it's maths. Brother Jumbo."

	"Now," said Brother Jumbo, "who knows de law of levers. Sebastian, you know?"
	"The short end of the lever has more power" said Sebasian.
	"That is right," said Brother Jumbo, "so big rock, you can move it with crowbar. Pull on the end, and big rock moves easily, because the short end of the lever moves less distance. You move end of lever long way, with little force, move short end little way, with big force. Now who knows the equation of levers?"
  	He drew a lever on the board.
	"Distance times effort is going to be distance times effort" said Adam.
	Albert made a note of it.
	"Very good." said Brother Jumbo. "So what is force measured in?"
	"Kilograms".
	"Nearly," said Brother Jumbo, "OK, for now we say kilograms. So we put ten kilograms on this side of the lever, two metres away. What force does it balance, on this side, four metres away?"
	"Five kilograms".
	Brother Jumbo grinned. "Now we have sailing dinghy." He drew a sketch of a dinghy in the water. "We have drop down keel, and sail up above, like so. Can anyone explain me the forces on this dinghy?"
	"The sail will act like a lever," said Albert.
	"And drop down keel, is it not also lever?" said Brother Jumbo, "That is why it is drop down, no?"
	"But not as far down as the sail is up" said Albert.
	"No", said Brother Jumbo.
	"On the other hand water is a lot heavier than air" said Sebastian.
	"We don't know how to calculate the point on which the lever turns" said Adam, "and if you have two people lying in the bottom, won't that change it?"
	The class laughed.
	"What do you think?" said Brother Jumbo, "let's calculate the forces on this dinghy, with and without two children in the keel, to see when it will and will not capsize. Adam, how much do you weigh?"
	
	By lunchtime, six rather chastened children went up to Fr Abbot's office.
	"Thank you for owning up promptly" said Fr Abbot, "I don't think that much more needs to be said, except that five pounds each needs to be added to your termly fees to cover the cost of replacing the chains. I've secured a promise from Adam and Sebastian that there will be no more night sailing, and I will expect the other four to join in with them in that. Punishment run before Matins tomorrow morning, and I'll also put you on kitchen duty for the next three weeks. You'll be taking it in a roster to help Brother Damian with the washing up and preparing the vegetables. Now everyone dismissed."
	The children went, and Fr Abbot went to the little locker beside his desk, took out a bottle, and poured himself a stiff shot of whiskey.

	"We can't have it both ways" he explained later to Br Dominic, "if we never let them take risks, they will never learn to do anything. If we do, they might do something too risky, like sailing dinghies in the middle of the night."
	"Will it be repeated?" asked Brother Dominic.
	"I think not, and I hope not" said Fr Abbot, "but one can never be sure."
	"So maybe its too dangerous to have dinghies at all."
	"Then the older children would kill us. Sailing is one of the few things we can offer that other schools don't have."
	"Maybe keep life jackets unlocked, near the dinghies."
	"There's always the argument that it's better to die in ten minutes, from hypothermia, than slowly in a life jacket. But I take your point." said Father Abbot, "seriously, I think they've had their fun, and will think of some different way of terrifying us next time. Just so that you know, the culprits were Cecilia, Abagail, Adam, Sebastian, James, and Albert."
	"Albert I'm surprised at" said Brother Dominic, "he always strikes me as sensible".
	"Haven't you noticed" said Fr Abbot, "the ones on the boat are the ones we don't need to worry about. Apart from killing themselves, of course. The Marys, Mandy, and especially Ibrahim, these are the ones who are failing."
	"I'm still worried about Adam" said Br Dominic.
	"Don't be" said Fr Abbot, "he stayed with the boat until dawn, to let the others get away. Adam is a far stronger character than he looks."

	"Kitchen work" said Cecilia, next break, "I really don't fancy that. He's got a cheek, using us as unpaid kitchen helpers. I wonder if my parents will get some of their fees back for that."
	"Back into brat mode", said Abagail, "some things never change."
	"I told him to send us to the kitchens" said Adam.
	"You told him?" said Cecilia, "what gave you the right to do that?"
	"He got all serious" said Adam, "and said, 'I have to make sure that this never happens again'. Like he didn't know what to do. So I felt a bit sorry for him. Anyway, I thought, once in the kitchens we can smuggle food out."
	"Adam" said Abagail, "you're a genius."
	"Brother Damian is old" said Adam, "that's why the food is so bad. But I'll reckon, anything we want, we can have."

	The six children didn't feel so bad, in the chill of the next morning, as they got ready in their running shorts for the run round the island. James won, with Cecilia close behind. She had done this circuit so often that she had the measure of it. Adam came a respectable third, Sebastian closely in fourth, with Albert and Abagail struggling to get the fifteen minutes. Prefects timed them.
	"The problem was, it was their boat" said Abagail, "they'll be out for revenge, so we'll have to get ours in first."

	That night, after prep, the six had to go to the kitchen to receive their orders. Brother Damian showed them the big pots in which the vegetables were boiled. These were too big to fit into the dishwasher, and had to be scrubbed out by hand. Then the kitchen floor had to be scrubbed down. The boys got these jobs. Adam began to think that maybe his plan had not been so clever after all. Abagail and Cecilia got the comparatively light task of chopping vegetables. However it was still boring.

	Meanwhile the two Marys and Mandy were the only first years in the girls' calefactory. Mandy and blonde Mary cut short Mary, so she was left entirely alone.
	"I saw Chris" said Mandy, "he gave me a letter from my mother. Mary, I need your advice."
	"You got a letter out," said blonde Mary, "Mandy, that was sweet. Now what does your mother say?"
	Mandy showed her the letter.
	"The thing is", she said, "Chris came to me."
	"Came to you?"
	"In a boat, at night", she said, "that's where I was, last night."
	"He must really love you. Mandy, you make me jealous." said blonde Mary.
	"He wants me to do things for him" said Mandy.
	"Reading this letter" said blonde Mary, "it would seem that your mother needs drugs. Prison is like school, but worse. The other prisoners will bully her if she doesn't have drugs to give them. With drugs, she's valuable and will be protected by the big prisoners. So Chris will want you to help smuggle them in, maybe in letters from you. You've got to agree to it, Mandy."
	"He also gave me these" said Mandy. "She went to her locker, and pulled out the twists of cannabis."
	"Mandy" said blonde Mary, "are you crazy? You don't keep cannabis in your locker. What with Father Abbot threatening to poke around to see who went on Abbey's little boat trip. Find somewhere to hide it."
	"Where can it go?" asked Mandy.
	"Near the toilet" said blonde Mary, "so you can flush it away if you get busted. Sorry to be so crude, but that's the way. Wrap it up in a plastic bag, and put it in the cistern. Then if something happens you nip in there, turn the lock, and flush it away. That's how you've got to think. But this Chris is a very nice man."
	"He gave it to me for free" said Mandy, "he said I could give it away, or sell it."
	"It won't be free always" said blonde Mary. "Jade and Olivia will pay for it. You only give it to your real friends."
	"Like you and me" said Mandy.
	"Like you and me" said blonde Mary. "Let's see Jade and Olivia. And don't tell them that you got it for free."
	"Chris said ten pounds is the street price" said Mandy.
	"Really I wouldn't know" said blonde Mary, "but I'm sure Chris is right."
	"Maybe I should just flush it right now" said Mandy, "I'm not sure I want into this".
	"Mandy" said blonde Mary, "would you flush two hundred pounds down the toilet? I'm sure I wouldn't. But that's not the point. This will get us well in with Jade and Olivia. In fact all of the upper years. There's nothing to be frightened of, trust me. Everybody with money does it."
	"Will you look after me?" Mandy asked blonde Mary, "I feel scared."
	"Mandy", said blonde Mary, hugging her, "you know how much I care for you. Get one of those wraps out, we need to see Jade and Olivia right now. Don't worry about the money, sweetie, I'll handle the financial aspect of it. Trust me. We're in with the big girls now."
	"OK" said Mandy, and smiled.

	Ibrahim was bored and alone. With no-one to talk to in the boys' calefactory, he went for a wander, into the cemetery. Four girls were there, Mandy, blonde Mary, Jade and Olivia. They gave a start, then laughed as the saw him. Jade made a sudden movement and put something down into the unkempt grass.
	"Ibrahim", said blonde Mary, "you gave us a scare. We thought you were a monk."
	Mandy began to say something, and then thought the better of it.
	"Mandy has been very sweet to us" said Jade.
	"What is it?" asked Ibrahim.
	"Oh nothing", said blonde Mary, "well, to be honest, we've been smoking."
	"Don't do that" said Ibrahim, "I don't want to die of cancer."
	"Oh, that's tobacco" said blonde Mary.
	The girls giggled.
	"You need to relax a little, Ibrahim" said Jade.
	"Oh Ibrahim is very chilled" said blonde Mary, "the most chill person in first year."
	"I bet it was chilly on that dinghy." said Olivia.
	"I didn't go" said Ibrahim.
	"I said, Ibrahim, you need to relax a bit" said Jade.
	"I was also not invited" said Mandy, "and I know how bad it feels. Can we make friends, now, Ibrahim?"
	Ibrahim hesitated.
	"Oh for God's sake, Ibrahim" said Jade, "chill. Mandy is about the most important person at school to know just now. You want to be in with Mandy."
	"You won't tell anyone we've been smoking" said Olivia.
	"Of course not" said Ibrahim.
	"Then join us" said Jade.
	"I don't smoke", said Ibrahim.
	"Ibrahim", said blonde Mary, "it's not tobacco. Well its got a little bit of tobacco with it, but it's not like a cigarette. It doesn't give you cancer. In fact it is totally harmless, it just relaxes you."
	Jade retrieved the half-burnt joint from the grass, and relit it. She raised it to her lips and took a shallow, deliberate puff. She handed it to Mandy, who also drew in, a bit tentatively. Then Olivia took a turn, then blonde Mary. She handed it back to Jade. Jade proffered the burning  twist of herbs and paper to Ibrahim. 
	"Your turn"
	Ibrahim smelt it. It was sweet and sickly, like incense, and reminded him in some way of Pakistan. He touched the end to his lips.
	"Just relax"
	He took a puff, and immediately started gagging. Mandy giggled.
	"Just take it into your mouth at first" said Jade, "and relax. You can inhale later."
	Ibrahim had another go, and took the heavy smoke into his mouth, and swished about with his tongue. It felt hot and burning, but somehow also relaxing.
	"We need another one" said Jade, "one's not enough for five."
	Mandy produced a wrap from her pocket, and Jade gave her a ten pound note in exchange.
	"Do I have to pay?" asked Ibrahim.
	"No" said Jade, "the first one is always on the house."

	Short Mary was furious at being left alone, and that blonde Mary was going with Mandy. "She's still meant to be in Coventry", she said to herself, "and hasn't once apologised or said that she is sorry.  I can understand blonde Mary wanting to hang round with Olivia and Jade, but why include Mandy. That vulgar little thing. How can they prefer her to me?"
Chapter 8. Half term

"Next weekend is half term and those of you whose parents are able to come, they will visit for the day" said brother Dominic, "so I want St Tom's looking at its best. Scrub out all those dorms, don't let them see the messy way in which you live."
	"We've just been scrubbing out kitchens all day, Sir" said Adam.
	"Which is your own silly fault. Dorms, pristine. Oh", and he lowered his voice confidentially, "I don't think we need to tell any parents about night sailing, do we."
	The boys sighed and got down to tidying out the dorm.
	Adam gave the window latch a good polish, and it came loose.
	"Badly maintained buildings" he said.
	"Let's have a look" said James, and elbowed Adam out of the way, "you know something, that's been unscrewed."
	"They've cut the screws off just leaving a couple of millimetres" said Albert, "that way it still holds in, but you can get the latch off, without getting a screwdriver to it each time."
	"Who would do that?" asked Adam.
	James slapped him on the back, "To get out, you dope."
	"We can get out the front door"
	"By grace of brother Dominic" said Sebastian, "Father Abbot told us that he keeps a watch on the door and he knew."
	"We've been insulting his intelligence" said James, "but this way we can get out, genuinely in secret. Imagine us not finding that out sooner."
	"Second years must think we're idiots" said Albert.
	"OK," said James, "we case every latch, every hinge, everything with a lock on it. Let's find out what else has been done."
	The soon found that the carpet had been untacked at one corner. It could be folded back, revealing bare floorboards. Albert instantly realised that one of these could be raised. It had been planed so that it fitted loosely, and the nails had been cut off with a hacksaw. The space below was empty, but smelt faintly like a pub.
	"This is where they keep their stash of beer" said James, "we didn't know anything about this. Literally nothing. We've been so slow."
	"It's open to the whole space under the floor boards" said Adam, "you could put anything down here"
	"Careful of the ceiling, though" said Albert, "It's just plasterboard, it won't bear any weight. I'll get some plywood in next thing and rest it on the joists. Then it will be safer."
	"Now we just need some beer to go into it" said James.
	"I don't like beer" said Adam.
	"Have you had it?" asked James.
	"Yes, my parents gave me a little bit, when they were together. But just to see how horrible it was" Adam said.
	"I don't like it either" said James. 
	"Ginger beer, maybe" said Adam.
	"That's too girly. Midnight feats, that what girls do." said James
	"No they don't." said Adam, "we have actual girls here, in case you hadn't noticed."
	"Well someone drinks ginger beer" said Albert, "or no-one would manufacture it."
	"It's drunk with whiskey" said Sebastian, "whiskey American. My father has it all the time."
	"And do you like it?" asked Adam.
	"No, it's gingery with a sort of nasty kick. Suitable only for Americans, in my opinion."
	"Don't let blonde Mary hear you say that" said Adam.
	"OK," said James, "so there's none of us like beer. Which raises the question, what is to go down here?"
	"Contraband" said Adam.
	"Obviously" said James, "I mean what."
	"Anything we can get out of the kitchen" said Albert.


	The revenge that Abagail predicted was not long in coming. The prefects held a meeting every week, and the subject of the stolen dinghy inevitably came up.
	"Those first years are getting a bit uppity" said one, "we would never have dared to take a boat, when we were that age."
	"I just wish they'd all been drowned" said another.
	"Don't be silly," said a third, "I wouldn't wish that on anyone. But what was Fr Abbot thinking of? One little run, and some kitchen duty. Like that's going to punish them?"
	"Well what can he do? He can't exactly have them shot at dawn. That's not allowed."
	"It was our boat. If we don't do something then sailing will be taken away from us, so that first years can't kill themselves at night."
	"So take them out and keelhaul them."
	"Keelhaul?"
	"You pass a rope round the dinghy, and tie the first year to the rope. Then you pull until he goes round and comes up the other side."
	"It might destabilise it."
	"Then we'd possibly have a dead first year on our hands, and Fr Abbot none too happy. Loss of a set of fees. No, we've got be responsible about this. He's dished out the punishment, it's not for us to be seen to undermine him."
	"Well just dunk them in the sea at night again."
	"That spoils it. You only do that once."
	"I've got a better idea. You know that Adam dished up poison against Rupert."
	"Served Rupert right. Never liked him."
	"No it didn't. He could have been killed."
	"Well he's not getting my vote for prefect next year."
	"Sean wanted that hushed up."
	"Sean did right. Adam's half crazy, you realise that?"
	"How come his sister is normal?"
	"I don't know, look, this is getting off the point. The first years have a reputation for dishing out poison. So why don't we all pretend to be really ill, with a stomach upset? Then we say that the first years have been moaning about their kitchen duty, which they have, especially Cecilia, that spoilt brat. So the monks put two and two together, and bang, our first years in deep doo-doo."
	"Brilliant. But why not spike the food with real poison?"
	"Oh no, I'm not getting into that. Not poison, please spare us. We all just trog along to the sick bay - everyone on prefects' table - and moan and moan and moan about the agony we're in. Then put in a formal complaint to Fr Abbot about catering standards."
	"The food could do with being improved"
	"Exactly. Monks can eat porridge and soggy vegetables, but most of us aren't going to be monks."
	"I am."
	"Well other monasteries aren't like this. They have nice food."
	"We've got an exemption from the prohibition on red meat. I think the brothers feel a bit guilty about it. So they have horrible cooking to compensate."
	"To keep us in line, more like."
	"Anyway, that's the plan. It gets the first years into trouble, and it gets us a complaint in about the food without antagonising Fr Abbot. Two birds with one stone."
	"I've got an even better idea. Do it at half term, right in front of the parents."
	"Food's always special then."
	"So brother Damian will have the first years in, slaving away. And it will be such an embarrassment when all the prefects come down with food poisoning."
	"Perfect".
	The prefects agreed, the meeting broke up.



	Ibrahim's parents were in Pakistan and not coming to the parent's day. Adam and Abagail's family also made their excuses. Mandy's parents were obviously not able to come either, but she had a social worker from the local authority to visit her. Blonde Mary's mother was to fly in especially from America, whilst for Sebastian, Albert and Cecilia there was no problem. For the other two children the choice of parent caused tensions. James' mother was coming, after a bitter quarrel with his father over who should have the privilege. Short Mary had both parents coming, something she dreaded. 
	"OK, I understand that Alex has managed to persuade Mummy that the journey from London is too far," said Abagail, "but why isn't Daddy coming? I want so much to see him."
	"Probably because Alex is paying for us" said Adam, "it creates a bit of an embarrassing situation. The thing is, it's really a chance for the parents to see Fr Abbot. They see us as an afterthought. But Daddy is the non-custodial parent, so he's no right to make any decisions about our education."
	"I thought he chose St Tom's for us" said Abagail.
	"He did, Abbey, he did. But that was informal, you see. Alex just wants us out. He couldn't care less where we go, or what the standard of teaching is like, or if we're happy there. I suspect he couldn't even care what it costs, he's got money. So he might as well let Daddy choose the school. And it prevents any moaning from Mummy." Adam was getting angry, "The fact is we've got no parents, unlike anyone else except Ibrahim, and he's got an obvious reason."
	"And Mandy"
	"And Mandy, but even she's got someone from the council coming to see her." said Adam.
	"Poor Mandy" said Abagail.
	"Well you sent her to Coventry" said Adam.
	"And the boys as well" said Abagail, "the fact is we had to protect Cecilia."
	"So I suppose we're stuck on the island" said Adam, "whilst the others are taken on trips by their parents."
	"Suppose so" said Abagail, "anyway, I like the island. It won't be so bad, just you and me together"
	"And Ibrahim" said Adam.
	"And Ibrahim, I forgot about him" said Abagail.

	The week leading up to half term passed anxiously. Brother Bernard went into panic mode.
"For crying out loud, Adam" he said in final exasperation, "just open and close your mouth but do not sing if you cannot even time the notes correctly."
	Adam burst into tears, at which point brother Bernard sighed deeply.
	"It is solemn high Mass for the parents" he said, "and we just do not have this together. The organ needs replacing, everything needs practising. Why we don't have a proper choir school I don't know. Now remember that most of the parents are shaky on Latin, so you have to enunciate clearly. They want to hear the words match what is printed in their books. Which means that you have got to understand what you are singing. Gloria in excelsis Deo. Who understands that?"
	"Glory to God in the highest" said everyone.
	"OK, that is easy. Et in terram pacem hominae bonae voluntatis."
	"And peace to his people on Earth" said Cecilia.
	"No, I said listen to the Latin. Doesn't brother Dominic teach you Latin?"
	"Well that's what we say at Mass" said Cecilia.
	"It's a loose translation" said Adam.
	"So what does the Latin say" said brother Bernard, "anyone?"
	"And on the Earth be peace to men who volunteer to do good." said Adam.
	"Did anyone tell you that, or did you translate it yourself?" asked brother Bernard.
	"I did it myself" said Adam.
	"A good attempt" said brother Bernard, "OK, we'll go with your translation for now."
	"But that doesn't mean the same thing as 'peace to his people on Earth' " said Cecilia, "not at all".
	"No", said Adam.
	
	"How did you know that" asked blonde Mary after the lesson, "when we haven't come to it in Latin lessons yet?"
	"You look at the words and guess" said Adam, "somehow it seems to have meaning.

	Brother Damian was less panicy. Older, he was unworried what the parents would think. However he was glad to have extra help from the first years, to ease the burden of preparing for the big day. There was to be a formal dinner at noon on Sunday, following the Mass.
	Abagail and Cecilia were set to rolling pastry. It came in big frozen slabs that had to be defrosted in the microwave. Then you had to roll it to size and cut it into shapes. The trimmings went to a pie for regular dinner, however brother Damian was fussy about not wasting too much. You also had to roll out the pastry evenly. Too much pressure on one side or the other would cause it to rise in a lopsided manner. Brother Damian showed them how to roll with many light strokes. The first few were not too bad, but there were pastry cases for over three hundred people to prepare. Abagail fairly soon wished she would never see another slab of pastry in her life.
	Albert and James scrubbed out the kitchen. Brother Damian wanted it especially clean, because he knew that things would be reduced to chaos on the big day, and it didn't do to have food lying about on surfaces that were dirty. His main headache, however, was supplies. Everything had to come in by boat, which ran every week. If by some chance he forgot to order some item, it was expensive and inconvenient to order the boat out again for a special trip, so unless it was completely vital they would simply do without. Adam and Albert were put in charge of documenting the supplies.
	"Count everything" said brother Damian, "what we have goes in this column here. Here's what we ought to have. What ought to be isn't always what is, sometimes it will be higher, sometimes lower. Usually lower, because people use things without signing for them. But don't just accept it, look for things. And tidy everything as you go."
	Adam grinned at Albert.
	"Double entry accountancy" said Albert, "you enter everything twice."
	"I really wouldn't know" said Adam.
	"Oh, it's surprisingly technical" said Albert, "I'm going to be an accountant."
	"This is carte blanche" said Adam.
	"What do you mean?" asked Albert.
	"Just fiddle the numbers, we can take what we want" said Adam.
	
The stores were stuffed full of marvellous things. Row upon row of tins, sacks spilling beans and nuts and sugar and flour. There was an entire box full of blocks of chocolate, and another full of massive tins of honey. Then there were the fresh vegetables, carrots, onions, garlic.
	"Carrots taste better raw" said Adam, "why does he have to ruin them by cooking them?"
	"We can't count all these in place" said Albert, "you move them, I'll keep tally. That way we get through them faster than if we try to count separately."
	"Honey, we'll have one of these tins. Chocolate, when have we had chocolate for dinner?"
	"Careful" said Albert, "that means he might have it counted."
	They consulted with James and Sebastian.
	"The thing is" said James, "when it is newly in, and a round number, probably he knows it's a new delivery and no-one has taken anything, so leave that alone. But if odds and ends from months ago are lying about, he's not going to keep track of that. So fiddle the entry and take some."
	"It's all very well fiddling the entry" said Adam, "but how do we get stuff out?"
	"Easy, wrap it up in plastic bags, then Sebastian and I put it in the garbage. We take the garbage out, and we retrieve it at night." said James.
	"Perfect." said Adam.

	"Look at this" said Albert, "this entire cellar is full of wine."
	Adam looked, amazed. Bottle after bottle was lined up, most of it new delivery.
	"It's for the parent's day" he said.
	"Unfortunately a new delivery" said Albert.
	They counted it. "Actually," said Albert, "that is short."
	"Are you sure?"
	They tried again. Short by three cases.
	"In which case it can be short by four cases" said Adam.
	Albert entered the fraudulent figure.
	"Four cases is a lot" he remarked, "is this safe?"
	"There's plenty of the same label but the previous year. That was obviously the same order for the last parents' day. So he'll have plenty." said Adam
	"Then maybe take from that one." suggested Albert.
	"What do you think?" asked Adam.
	"Wine is likely to be counted a bit more carefully than other things. So if one is short already, I'd say it's safer to take from that. Besides, I've entered the figure already. Don't cause suspicion."
	"OK" Adam agreed. They rushed the case into the dustbin, both of them carrying it, whilst brother Damien was away. James and Sebastian covered it with rubbish, then wheeled it out.

	James also got himself a decent knife.
	"That's for killing sheep" he explained.
	"I don't think we'll be killing any more sheep" said Adam, "we've been banned from nicking the dinghy again."
	"You never know" said James, "I'm taking it just in case."

	Albert smuggled out a wire grill, and small canister of gas .
	"What do you want those for?" asked Adam.
	"The wire grill is so we don't have to rely on a grill being around next time we have a barbecue. The gas is to make explosives in case I want to blow the place up."
	"Where would you blow up?" asked Adam.
	"Haven't decided yet" said Albert, "but you can make a nice bomb with a canister of cooking gas."
	
	At last the final touches were put to Friday prep. The six children who had been on the dinghy went into the kitchen for a final preparation. Normal dinner still had to be cleared up after, then there was all the food to prepare for the big day. The pastries were filled with a mixture of venison and chopped vegetables. They were then put into the fridge, ready to be baked. There were also desserts, made of shortbread, caramel, and chocolate. The chocolate had to be melted in a big pot over boiling water, then poured carefully and spread with a knife. Then came the awful job of cleaning the pot of the solidified chocolate. Abagail had always thought of chocolate as a nice thing, now she realised that it could also be messy. If you kept it cold it was awkward to clean and stuck to the pot like paint, if you warmed it with water it became sticky and horrible, and messed up every surface you were working with. Then it blocked up the sink. However eventually it was completed, and they looked proudly at a clean kitchen and serried ranks of pastries and desserts.
	Finally it was Compline, and everything was over. There were no lessons the following Saturday.

	The ferry arrived about noon with the first parents. Sebastian's and Cecilia's had obviously got talking on the boat, and walked up from the quay in a foursome. Sebastian's father wore a tweed jacket. He was a medium height, handsome man, with hair that was maybe slightly too long, but still full on top. His mother was taller than he, and elegant. She also wore country clothes, and a waxed jacket that was slightly wet from spray. She looked a little bit eccentric, alongside Cecilia's mother, who was dressed in a smart jacket with big blue spots on it. She wore a fur scarf or warmer. Cecilia's father was a tall, rather serious looking gentleman. He wore glasses, and had lost most of his hair. He was dressed, like Sebastian's father, in tweed, but somehow seemed to cut a more citified, less refined figure.
	Cecilia ran to her mother, who hugged her tenderly. 
	"Cecilia," she said, "we got your letters and they were so terrible. I was afraid you were unhappy. We can take you back at once, if you don't like it here."
	"Oh no," said Cecilia, "what would Fr Abbot say? He'd never let any parents come, ever again."
	"So you've settled in" said her father.
	"If anyone settles in at St Tom's." said Cecilia. "We have our ups and our downs, but I wouldn't go to another school, not now. I'd have to make new friends, and it might be even worse than here."
	Her father smiled broadly. "And what about Mandy, is she still your friend?"
	"We've had some trouble there" said Cecilia. "It's a bit embarrassing really."
	"It's you we're interested in" said her mother, "as long as you are happy."
	"I'm perfectly happy, Mummy." said Cecilia, gushingly. "You must meet Abbey, and Mary, and Mary Walker too, I suppose. Mandy too, I suppose, but I'm afraid I've rather fallen out with her."
	
	Sebastian talked quietly with his parents.
	"This is certainly a more dramatic setting than my old place" said his father, "sailing, too. We didn't have sailing at my school."
	"Officially first years aren't allowed to sail" said Sebastian.
	"I like your officially" said his father, with a chortle, "don't tell me."
	"Hush" said Sebastian, "spies everywhere."
	"I should hope at least you are allowed to swim" said his mother.
	"Too cold" said Sebastian.
	"Too cold. Nonsense. We had colder baths at my ladies' college." said his mother "Swimming is an essential art for a sailor, Sebastian."
	"Honestly, it is too cold" said Sebastian, "we've been in the shallows, of course. But in the deep you can survive about ten minutes, before hypothermia sets in. That's why you have to sail with a lifejacket. That gives you a few hours to be picked up."
	"So do the older ones throw you in?" asked his father, "that's what we would have done, if we were here."
	"Just the once" said Sebastian, "as I said, it's so cold it's actually dangerous."
	"Prudence rather than effeminacy." said his father.
	"How are the others?" said his mother.
	"Oh, they're a nice bunch" said Sebastian, "there's only five boys, so we have fun. The only problem is you can't get a decent team together for five-a-side."
	"I knew we should have sent you to a rugby school" said his mother.
	"Oh rugby" said Sebastian, "I know I played it at prep school, but to be honest it is the most pretentious game I have ever seen. Even the Americans do football with more style. Football is natural, and you can play it with anyone. We play the local comprehensives and it's great. I just wish we could beat them."
	"Comprehensive schools do have rugby teams" said his father.
	"I know, but anybody who is anybody at a comprehensive wants to be a professional footballer. Oh, father."
	"Well, your friend Cecilia certainly has nice parents." said his father, "so much so that I'm considering a business deal with her father. He can reduce the tax take on our farm by converting part of it to forestry. We don't actually have to plant any more trees, just cut down the occasional one that is already there and, presto, it's a managed forest."
	"We'll leave you gentlemen to work out the details" said his mother, "yes, Sebastian. I never implied that St Tom's was a bad place. I just wondered if you might have preferred a rugby school."

	"Poor Sebastian" said Abagail, "no wonder he's so uptight."
	"Cecilia's seem nice though", said Adam.
	"I wish ours were together." said Abagial.
	"Or even here", said Adam, "Never mind. At least no-one can laugh at them."

The boat went back for a second load. Adam was surprised to see Sebastian's mother talking with another man, father of one of the third years. They were laughing, and then she put her hand into his, and squeezed it. Sebastian's father, looking on from some distance, still immersed in conversation with Cecilia's father, didn't seem to mind.
	"Daddy would have punched him if he did that with Mummy" said Adam.
	"Maybe that's why Sebastian's are together, whilst ours aren't" said Abagail.
	"Well Cecilia's are still together, and they don't behave like that" said Adam.

The boat returned with the next load of parents. Adam picked out Albert's father before he had even got off the quay.
	"That's got to be Albert's" he said to Abagail, "it's just the spitting image of Albert."
	He was short man, and balding, but Abagail could see what he meant. The mother was plump, and rather frumpish looking. They went up to Albert and took him aside, talking quietly and intensely.
	"I can't hear what they are saying" said Adam.
	"You're so nosey" said Abagail.

	James ran up to his mother. She was small, and frail looking, but with a look of complete determination on her face.
	"James", she said, "I've missed you so."
	"I've missed you too, Mum" said James.
	"But you wanted to be here so much, I hope you are not disappointed" said his mother.
	"It's not quite what I expected" said James, "but I'm not disappointed."
	"James," said his mother, "Daddy and I had an argument about money before I set off. You know that we could only just afford to send you here, and now I'm not sure we can keep up with the fees. Do you really want to stay here?"
	James' jaw dropped with shock.
	"I'm sorry, James" said his mother, "I see how upsetting this is for you. I will really try. But it is better to tell you the truth. That evil man, your father, told me he wouldn't pay his share for you, simply because I said I would go to see you today and not him. No matter that you're going to him in the holiday. When you're at school, you're with neither of us, I said, so his access should be reduced. That's only fair. But he wouldn't see it that way. Anyway, he said he wouldn't pay his share for you any longer. But darling, if you want to stay here I will try, I will try so hard. But if Mummy can't find the money, Mummy can't find the money."
	"I'm in charge of the five-a-side team" said James, "I wouldn't have that anywhere else. I wouldn't be the best, in a bigger school"
	"And the monks have told me you're doing so well at maths, and at English. I can't really see the point of you doing Latin but brother Dominic is very pleased with you in that as well. I can see it would be a terrible shame to take you away from here" said his mother.

	"Good grief" said Adam, "positively embarrassing".
	"Now you're glad Alex didn't come" said Abagail, "just think how mortifying that would have been."
	"Mum, Dad, this is Adam and Abbey, the twins" said Albert.
	"Pleased to meet you" said Adam, and shook hands.
	"The ferry will only carry a dozen or so people" said Albert's father, "and even then it was a squash. I suppose your folks are still waiting."
	"No", said Adam, "they're not coming."
	Albert's mother looked cross.
	"Adam's probably my best friend" said Albert, "we made a rabbit trap together."
	"And did you catch any rabbits in it?" asked his father.
	"Oh yes," said Albert, "we had roast rabbit."
	"It was Abbey's idea" said Adam, "Abbey doesn't like the food here."
	"Are you not fed properly?" said his mother anxiously.
	"It's not the best, but I'd say its got all the vitamins" said Albert.
	"Rank and dire" said Abagail, "we have to supplement our food with things we catch, or else we'd starve. Or at least, get ill. It's the only thing I've got against St Tom's, really."
	"Well maybe it could be improved" said his mother, "I shall mention this to Fr Abbot"
	"Please don't" said Albert.
	"Please do" said Abagail.
	"The thing is" said Adam, "technically we're supposed to be living in poverty. Well that's a bit of a joke since to afford the fees you have to be rich. So by keeping the food simple they're trying to keep standards up, so to speak."
	"Simple!" said Abagail, "you mean awful. I can't believe I'm hearing this from you two. Complain."
	"With the level of fees I'm paying I'd certainly expect adequate food for Albert" said Albert's father.
	"It's not as if they don't have nice things in the kitchen" said Albert, "It's the cooking where it goes wrong. But don't worry Dad, Adam wangled us a job in the kitchen and so we sneak things out."
	"Well be careful" said his father, "I don't want you expelled."
	"For taking food from the kitchen?" said his mother, "be realistic."
	"We're lucky to be here, all said and done" said Adam, "there are plenty worse places we could be."
	"You know we have our own water and our own generator?" said Albert, "I've got to show you the generator."

	The next boatload arrived, containing the two Marys' amongst the set of parents.
	"You can tell she's a film star" said Adam.
	Indeed blonde Mary's mother was easy to spot. She was dressed in a low cut dress, quite inappropriate for the weather. It had long hairy fringes on the neckline and sleeves, with beads threaded onto them. The skirt was mini but at least didn't show her thighs, and there was matching beading on her knee-length boots. What gave it away, though, was a huge pentagram, picked out in red sequins, over her chest. For all that she looked like a teenager, blonde Mary's mother was beautiful. Her complexion was perfect. Her face was regular, but just with a slight mischievous smirk, which she had accentuated with bright red lipstick. Her body was slim and perfectly toned, like an athlete's.
	Blonde Mary approached her, suddenly seeming much less the swan and more the ugly duckling, tall, a little too lank, still in brown St Tom's plumage. The two didn't hug, which surprised Adam and Abagail. 
	"I'm sorry darling," said blonde Mary's mother, "I would have come by helicopter, but Fr Abbot told me at the last moment that a landing wasn't possible. We've left the Merc by the village, and it was an absolutely awful drive up. Four hours sitting in a car. I know you have to do that sort of thing in the States, but in England. The worst was waiting for the ferry. My costume is absolutely ruined by the spray, and there's no way of changing it. I feel like a fish that has suddenly been dragged from the water. So sorry, darling, for you to see me like this."
	"Well never mind Mum" said blonde Mary, "seriously, though, Scotland's not the best place. It must be an awful drag coming up. Wouldn't I be better at a school in London, or in New York?"
	"No, darling, we've decided on St Tom's for you." said her mother.
	"Why do I have to? None of my friends go here." said blonde Mary.
	"We felt it would give you stability, darling, and academically it's very good" said her mother, forcing a smile as she realised she could be overheard.
	"It doesn't have the best academic record in the country, you know" said blonde Mary, pouting.
	"That's because it's not as selective." said her mother, "Darling, this isn't the right place to talk about these matters. Of course Mummy wants you to be happy, and really I'd like you to be with me. But your Daddy and I have agreed, that it's best for you if you stay here, and get the best academic grades you can."
	"Like academic counts for anything" said blonde Mary, "but come on Mum, meet my friends. This is Abbey, and her twin brother Adam."
	"Do you also think the school is dreadful?" asked the mother.
	"Oh yes," said Abagail with a giggle, "hate every minute. But hey, we come out clever. So what's a ruined childhood compared with that?"
	"And you too Adam"
	"Hate it, Madam, I hate it" Adam assured her.
	She made much more of a fuss of Sebastian, and was a bit frosty with Cecilia, but always polite. She talked to Ibrahim at some length about the political situation in Pakistan, then had a brief word with James and with Albert. She then worked her way up to Mandy, who found much favour.
	"Mandy's on scholarship" said blonde Mary.
	"So I take it you are the cleverest" said blonde Mary's mother, with a smile.
	"No, Madam" said Mandy.
	"She is clever, though" said blonde Mary.
	"My folks at home can't look after me, so I'm sent here instead" explained Mandy.
	"The care system is so screwed up that it actually costs less to send a kid here than to keep them in a home" said blonde Mary, "so Mandy is here."
	"Mandy, you must come with Mary and me" said blonde Mary's mother, "we can't have you on your own, on parent's day."
	"I can't" said Mandy, "I've got my social worker coming."
	"And you like her?" asked blonde Mary's mother.
	"Oh yes," said Mandy, "she's fine."
	"Mandy's probably my best friend" said blonde Mary.
	"You see, Mary, don't dismiss St Tom's before you've even settled in. You never know what lovely things might happen to you here."
	As she approached short Mary, who was talking to her parents, there was a sudden awkwardness.
	"This is Mary Walker" said blonde Mary, sensing that something was amiss.
	"Well, lovely to meet you" said her mother, and shook hands briefly. She turned away. As she left, short Mary's mother was heard to exclaim "Dreadful woman".

	What had happened was that blonde Mary's mother had asked the chauffeur of the Mercedes to make enquiries, after they stopped by the supermarket in the village. She was in a bad mood, because of the length of the car journey, and was still smarting from the rebuff given to her by Fr Abbot over the helicopter landing.
	The boat had just made a trip, and short Mary's mother was the only other parent present on the landing. The chauffeur naturally assumed that she was one of the villagers, and asked her for directions to the island. Short Mary's mother told him, civilly enough, that the boat would return within a few minutes. "So I take it we can embark within a few minutes" said the chauffeur. "No," said short Mary's mother, "you wait until a full complement of passengers have arrived. Then the boat sets off." "And when will that be?" asked the chauffeur, "Whenever the passengers arrive" said short Mary's mother. Now short Mary's mother didn't realise that the man was a chauffeur. He was uniformed, and she knew he was not a policeman. So she assumed he was a petty official of some kind. When the chauffeur said "that's not acceptable, we will pay full fares for an immediate journey" she looked at him with contempt, as if to say, "who are you to tell the boatman how to run his business?" So she told him that that would unlikely to be possible, and they'd have to wait. He said he'd wait in the car, and she told him that people would queue. So he said he would keep the place for his mistress, who would wait in the car. "Oh no she won't" said short Mary's mother. "She will queue herself, like the rest of us, or the boat's going without her." Stupidly, the chauffeur still didn't realise that short Mary's mother was a parent, and went back to the Mercedes, reporting to blonde Mary's mother that a villager was being awkward with him, and was insisting that she queue personally for the boat. Understandably, blonde Mary's mother was furious. So she went out herself to try to smooth things over with her charm.
 	"I'm just in a real hurry to get to the island, love" she said, "I can pay you to make it worth your while."
	"There's a queue" said short Mary's mother, offended.
	At this point, short Mary's father drew up in his car. 
	"This woman is not prepared to queue like the rest of us" said short Mary's mother.
	"Some of us are so hung up on things, will you keep my place in the queue for a few moments, darling" said blonde Mary's mother, winking at him.
	Of course she had no way of knowing that they were a married and now divorced couple.
	"I'm not sure I could do that" said short Mary's father awkwardly, trying to smooth things over between the two women. In the end blonde Mary's mother went into the supermarket, found the boatman's wife, and asked her explicitly if it was OK if her chauffeur kept the place in the queue for her. The boatman's wife said yes, and so she did. Both women retreated, blonde Mary's mother to her Mercedes, short Mary's mother to the head of the queue, fuming.
	It was even worse on the actual trip, when the two were jammed together. Blonde Mary's mother accidentally on purpose trod on short Mary's mother's foot, then apologised, but she was so jammed and getting her costume wet with the spray, so could that kind gentleman be so nice as to stand with his weatherproof between her and the sea. Of course he was flattered, and she gave a discreet "sorry love" to his wife and talked to her for the rest of the journey. So blonde Mary's mother took centre stage, whilst short Mary's stood in the bows, being lashed by the spray, and with her former husband not paying any attention. In that situation, they arrived on the island.

	"She thinks having a Mercedes entitles her to be so terribly rude to everyone" complained short Mary's mother, "and who was that dreadful jumped up little man? A chauffeur?"
	"It's the Merc and having film star looks" said the father, and short Mary's mother glowered at him.
	"Mary's mother is a film star" explained short Mary.
	"I thought so," said short Mary's mother, "slept her way to the top, no doubt. Stay away from the daughter, Mary."
	"There's only five of us Mum" said short Mary, "it's not possible not to speak to anybody."
	"Well don't let her influence you. I always thought St Tom's was a no nonsense sort of a place, but you get bad people everywhere." said her mother.
	"I think Mary can choose her own friends" said the father.
	"I was advising her. I appreciate that you don't care who she mixes with. Come here a minute" she took him aside.
	"I thought we agreed we would not fight over Mary's upbringing" she hissed.
	"I am sorry Mary" said her father, "your mother and I, we agreed that this was the best place to send you, to develop a bit of independence. Now the main thing we need to know is, are you happy?"
	"Oh, I hate it" said short Mary, "take me away, try somewhere different."
	"In that case we'll discuss it with Fr Abbot" said her father.

	"Are you really leaving?" said Abagail, "and will your parents let you?"
	"I don't know" said short Mary, "but they're discussing it seriously with Fr Abbot, right now."
	"I'll happily discuss your concerns" Fr Abbot told them, "but really I'm not the best person to be talking about this to. Brother Dominic has far more day to day responsibility for the first years."

	"I'd say St Tom's is exposing, rather than causing Mary's problems" said brother Dominic. "She could be a reasonably well-adjusted, socially integrated girl. But there's something that makes her lash out against other people, and the other children are beginning to pick up on that, and it makes her unpopular. I don't think she's got the worst problems of any child in first year, however."
	"Then who is that?" asked the mother.
	"I couldn't possibly say" said brother Dominic, "we are here to discuss Mary. School can be a very revealing environment. The child is thrown upon his own resources, amongst strangers. But it can also be a concealing one, as children adopt a false persona, to cope. Mary has decided that she must not show any vulnerability, must assert her place in the social pecking order. But that's not true. On its own terms it works for a while, but eventually the absence of real relationships takes its toll, and enmities develop."
	"We should take her away before she digs herself a hole any deeper than she's in" said her father.
	"Ultimately it's your decision" said brother Dominic, "as a member of St Tom's, naturally I will almost always urge a pupil to stay. But I think it would give Mary a sense of failure to leave. Let things come to a crisis, and let the crisis happen here, at St Tom's, where things are relatively safe. If you give her the easy way out, you are only storing up trouble for the future."
	"But where are these problems coming from" asked her mother, "if not from St Tom's?"
	"St Tom's isn't perfect" said brother Dominic, "but I think we can say we avoid many of the mistakes other schools make. We keep the year groups very small, for instance. Rivalries can't fester, they have to be confronted, because she is with the same five girls, almost 24 hours a day, seven days of the week. It's the same for us monks. We have nowhere to hide. Religious community works, and it can work for Mary."
	"You've convinced me" said her father, "I think she should stay".
	"I think Mary herself should have the final word" said the mother, "and she wants to leave."
	"There's no need to take a decision in a hurry" said brother Dominic, "you are the guardians, not St Tom's, and ultimately you can take her away whenever you please. We do really prefer that she completes at least a term, however, otherwise it is extremely disruptive for the other children."
	With that they left.

After introductions and some drinks, the parents took their offspring into Western Scotland for the evening. St Tom's could not provide accommodation for everyone, and the location was quite remote, so hotels and bed and breakfasts had been booked in the small towns and villages thereabouts.
	"Since your parents aren't here" said Cecilia, "my mother and father wondered if you'd like to spend the day with us."
	"Oh thanks, Cecilia" said Abagail.
	"I can't" said Adam, "because that would leave Ibrahim as literally the only one. Even Mandy's got someone. I couldn't do that to him."
	"Silly of me" said Cecilia, "of course we can't leave Ibrahim out. I've no doubt at all that my parents will agree to him coming along as well."

	A few minutes later, a second invitiation came from blonde Mary. Her mother was eager to take the twins to dinner. Naturally, they had to decline.
	"A pity" said Adam, "blonde Mary's mother would have provided us a decent spread"
	"Oh, she's probably a fruititarian or something equally ridiculous" said Abagail, "we're better off with Cecilia's, by miles."
	"I would have thought Albert would have invited us" said Adam, "with us being best friends".
	"Maybe they just didn't think of it" said Abagail. 

	Mandy's social worker came on the last boat. She was a small, friendly looking woman. She wore no make-up and her clothes were plain and workman like. She shook hands with Mandy and talked to her for a while, then scooted up to see Fr Abbot.

	"Is the placement successful?" she asked the headmaster.
	"Oh yes", said Fr Abbot, "absolutely".
	"We were worried that the social environment may not be the best, that other children would feel it was inappropriate and exclude her." said the social worker.
	"All children have problems" said Fr Abbot, "and Mandy came to us with more than most. But her presence here is one hundred percent appropriate, be sure of that."
	"Do the other children accept her as an equal?" asked the social worker.
	"This is a monastery" said Fr Abbot, "we don't intend to give them the choice."
She took out a sheaf of papers from her briefcase.
	"We need to monitor Mandy's progress. I hope you'd be so kind as to help me fill out the personal and social relationships form." she said.
	Father Abbot smiled.
	"On a one to ten scale, how would you rate the adequacy of Mandy's skills in relating to other children of her own age in non-formal situations?" she asked.
	Father Abbot laughed. "Mandy needs to realise that relating to other children is not a skill." he said.
	"So where would you put it, on one to ten?" asked the social worker.
	"You mean her skills in manipulating other children?" he asked.
	"No, the adequacy of her skills in relating to other children of her own age in non-formal situations." said the social worker.
	“I couldn't possibly say”, said Father Abbot.

The bell rang for None and at the instant all the children dropped their conversations, turned their backs on their parents, and filed into the chapel. The parents stood about the courtyard, for a moment bewildered.
	"It's the St Tom's way" said Sebastian's father. "Nothing comes before the office."
	"It's almost rude" said Cecilia's mother, who was talking with him.
	"Some people will break off their conversations when a mobile phone rings" said blonde Mary's mother, "prayer is important to the monks, I respect that."
	"What are you waiting for?" said Sebastian's father, "To the chapel."

The parents arrived just in time. None was in English that day.
"Oh God come to out aid"
"Oh Lord make haste to help us."

"Oh Strength and Stay upholding all creation
Who ever dost Thyself unmoved abide,
yet day by day the light in due gradation
from hour to hour though all its changes guide"
"Grant to life's day a calm unclouded ending,
an eve untouched by shadows of decay,
the brightness of a holy deathbed blending
with dawning glories of the eternal day."	

The hymn continued, then there was a Psalm. Then more prayers, and finally.

"The souls of the faithful by the mercy of God, rest in peace."

Monks ands children knelt for a brief moment, then rose promptly and returned to their business.

	"So as I was saying, Mummy," said Cecilia, "thank you so much for allowing Ibrahim to come along as well."
	"It was good of you to think of him" said her father.

Adam and Abagail and Ibrahim joined Cecilia and her parents on the boat. The village had been turned into a temporary car park, with parental vehicles everywhere. Cecilia's father made for a four by four. There were dog hairs over the back seat, and the carpet was stained with mud.
	"Sorry it's a bit squashed" he said.
	"We won't mind" said Cecilia. All four children crammed onto the back seat.
	"Are you glad to see the back of St Tom's for the day?" asked the father.
	"Kind of" said Abagial, "but it's also kind of like home."
	They drove for about an hour through Scottish countryside.
	"There's a deer" said Cecilia.
	"Wild?" asked Adam.
	"Semi-" said Cecilia, "the big landowners run deer on their forest estates. They make a lot of money out of shooting."
	"Have you been shooting?" asked Adam.
	"We can't afford deer stalking" said her father.
	"We're having venison tomorrow though" said Adam.
	"Oh, we have venison all the time" said Cecilia.
	"But you can't afford to shoot it?" said Adam.
	"No."
	The germ of an idea was forming in Abagail's mind.

They turned into a small town, where Cecilia's parents had booked a bed and breakfast and a restaurant. Cecilia's father went into the bed and breakfast to make arrangements for another room.
	"There's only one extra room" he said, "you'll have to share."
Then they went into the restaurant, which was an unpretentious place, serving Scottish food. It was Cock-a-leekie soup for starters, chicken and leeks, with prunes and a bit of beef in the bottom of the bowl.
	"Scottish food is either really nice or really horrible" said Adam, "like porridge and haggis, or smoked salmon and shortbread."
	"Which is Cock-a-leekie soup?" asked Cecilia's father.
	"Really nice."
	"Do you want the crusts cut off your bread?" asked Cecilia's mother.
	"Oh, I'd forgotten about that" said Cecilia.
	"The thing is", said Abagail, "the food is so horrible at St Tom's that we'd eat anything except."
	"Do you say grace?" said Adam, wondering if he could start eating.
	"We do at St Tom's" said Abagail, "every meal".
	"Not in a restaurant, Abbey" said Cecilia's mother.
	"Adam is right" said Cecilia, "you should not be ashamed to pray in public."
	"If you want, darling" said her mother.
	Cecilia's father made as if to speak, he looked embarrassed, "What do you say at St Tom's?" he asked them.
	Adam, Abagail and Cecilia chanted out in unison 
	"Benedic, Domine, nos et haec tua dona quae de tua largitate sumus sumpturi. Per Christum Dominum nostrum. Amen."
	Then they added
  	" Ad cenam vitae aeternae perducat nos, Rex aeternae gloriae. Amen."

	"Very good," said Cecilia's father, "what does it mean?"
	 "Bless us Oh Lord, and these thy gifts which we are about to receive from thy bounty. Through Christ our Lord" said Adam. "Then the last bit goes, 'May the King of everlasting glory lead us to the banquet of life eternal'. You only say that at evening. We say that every mealtime."
	"It's a lot longer on Sunday" said Abagail.
	"Why aren't you joining in, Ibrahim?" said Cecilia.
	"I don't believe in it" said Ibrahim.
	"That's terrible, Ibrahim" said Cecilia.
	
	Cecilia's father poured half a glass of wine for Cecilia, and added water to it.
	"We let Cecilia drink wine as long as it has water in it" said Cecilia's mother, "would your parents mind if we let you have some?"
	"If they minded they ought to have come" said Abagail.
	"Just a glass" said her father.
	"Not for me" said Ibrahim, "my parents wouldn't like it. Pakistan is full of Muslims, you know. You are whipped if you are caught drinking at school."
	"That's terrible, Ibrahim" said Cecilia.
	Cecilia's father poured two glasses for Adam and Abagail. The wine went a pink colour when diluted by the water. They all drank.
	"What about that girl, Mandy?" said Cecilia's father, "she's not left at St Tom's, I hope."
	"No, she has a social worker to visit her." said Abagail.
	"The poor girl" said Cecilia's mother.
	"It's what she deserves" said Cecilia, "she's a horrible person."
	"Cecilia", said her father, "you mustn't say that."
	"She attacked me" said Cecilia, "I don't mean just pulled my hair. Really attacked me, kicking and punching, hard, like a little savage. I had bruises for weeks afterwards."
	"Well were you nasty to her?" asked her father.
	"Not at all. In fact at first I tried to be her friend. I thought she had been disadvantaged, and wanted to be fair to her" said Cecilia.
	"So she just attacked you for no reason?" said Cecilia's father.
	"No reason" said Cecilia.
	"Cecilia," said her father, "do you think that I believe that?"
	"Well to be honest I did correct her grammar. She said she'd not sneaked on no-one, and I said it was anyone." said Cecilia.
	"You see how that could be offensive" said Cecilia's father.
	"Well that doesn't justify what Mandy did" protested Abagail, "she attacked Cecilia like a little thug. But we punished her. She doesn't go to any of our things."
	"You're going to get that" said Cecilia's father, "children from disadvantaged backgrounds are violent sometimes. But she can't have attacked you as violently as you say. Fr Abbot would never have allowed it."
	"She could, and he did." said Abagail, "Fr Abbot couldn't care what we do, as long as we turn up for chapel every three hours."
	"The thing is", said Cecilia, "she hasn't apologised. Even when Fr Abbot tried to make her."
	"Then it's all the more important that you forgive her" said Cecilia's father.
	"Well maybe. But she still would be one of the ones to miss the boat" said Cecilia.
	"Miss the boat?" asked Cecilia's father.
	"We borrowed a boat, but there was only room for six people in it. So four got left out." explained Cecilia.
	"You borrowed a boat?"
	"Well, nicked" said Cecilia, "Adam and Albert cut through the mooring chains with a hacksaw, and we took it for a sail".
	"And no-one saw you?"
	"It was at night." said Cecilia.
	"At night?" Cecilia's father for the first time looked alarmed, "what did Fr Abbot do?"
	"Nothing" said Cecilia.
	"Or almost nothing" said Abagail, "he sent us to the kitchen, so we nick all the food."
	"I don't know what Fr Abbot is thinking, letting you sail boats at night" said Cecilia's father, "Cecilia, I didn't teach you to sail so that you could go and drown yourself. What would happen if you hit a rock? Don't trust a lifejacket to save you, not in the dark."
	Cecilia prudently didn't tell him that they had sailed without any lifejackets at all.
	
	The second course arrived, which was salmon with peppers and asparagus. There was more bread with it, and little pats of butter.
	"This is a real meal" said Adam.
	"First decent food in ages" said Abagail, "and we can talk. We're not allowed to at St Tom's"
	"Really" said Cecilia's mother.
	"We have reading instead" said Abagail.
	"Not all the time though" said Adam, "they're a bit lenient on us. It's not as if we are monks. You can talk at breakfast."
	"And your prayers are gloomy." said Cecilia's mother.
	"Oh, that's None," said Adam, "three O'Clock is the time of the devil's greatest power. So None is always a bit sombre. My favourite is Compline."
	"Compline is nice" said Abagail.
	"After it's bed" said Cecilia.
	"Or trips out of the dorm" said Abagail, giggling.
	
	For the past several weeks Adam had shared a the same dorm as Ibrahim. However just the two of them, with no lights out, was a different experience. The two boys talked long into the night.
	"You three think you're superior" said Ibrahim, "because you can say prayers in Latin and talk about Compline and Terce. But don't you see that you are not? If everybody could do it, there would be no point. St Tom's would do something else."
	"Like what?" asked Adam.
	"Like Greek, or sing the Psalms in Hebrew. Anything to make out that we're better than other people. That's all religion is, in my opinion. Hypocrisy." said Ibrahim.
	Adam thought about this. "But surely we are superior, our parents wouldn't be paying good money if we were not. Lot's of people apply and don't get past the exam."
	"Being rich and intelligent doesn't make you better" said Ibrahim, "the religion is just a smokescreen. What parents, what monks are interested in is exam results. To get people like Rupert into Oxford University. Religion disguises what they are doing."
	"Why would anyone want to do that?" said Adam, "we could be working all the time we spend at chapel."
	"Because no-one likes to think that they are evil" said Ibrahim, "but they are. Everyone is evil. "
	"Everyone, like Cecilia's father?" asked Adam.
	"He just wants friends for Cecilia. And nice exam results. He doesn't actually care about us." said Ibrahim.
	"So what about Cecilia?" 
	"Stuck up. Just a bit less blatant about it than Sebastian and short Mary. As for blonde Mary, is she for real?" said Ibrahim.
	"James?"
	"Bully."
	"Albert?"
	"Albert's just interested in what he's interested in. Doesn't care about anybody else. He's mates with you because Sebastian and James have no time for him. That's all."
	"Mandy?"
	"I like Mandy. And you and Abagail. But you're turning into a religious nut, Adam. Don't let St Tom's do that to you."
	"That's the idea of a monastery. To turn out religious." said Adam.
	"But none of it is true" said Ibrahim, " 'Benedic, domine, nos', 'bless us, Oh Lord'. What's that supposed to mean? The food is rubbish anyway. Who wants to thank God for food you can hardly eat? As if secular people don't get better food than we do. There is no God."
	"How do you know?" asked Adam.
	"Because if there was a God we could see Him." said Ibrahim, "but we can't. There are no spirits, or faeries at the bottom of the garden."
	"There are ghosts though" said Adam.
	"Don't believe in those, either."
	"I saw one", said Adam, "a monk."
	"It couldn't have been a ghost" said Ibrahim, "just a trick of the light. Or one of the monks, out for a wander."
	"No, it wasn't one of the monks" said Adam.
	"Then a trick of the light" said Ibrahim, "Adam, do you believe in God because you saw a ghost?"
	"No" said Adam, "but I know the idea that there is no supernatural is untrue, because I saw a ghost. However I believed in God before then and I still believe after."
	"Well why can't I see it?" asked Ibrahim, "that tells me that, actually, there are no ghosts. I don't say you're lying Adam, I know you wouldn't do that. But it must have been a trick of the light, or of your mind."
	"Ibrahim", said Adam, "did you mind not being on the boat?"
	"Someone had to be excluded."
	"But it was you. I didn't think at the time, but it was wrong to leave you as the only boy not there. Another could have been squeezed on. Now you're not in the kitchen, either. You're cut out from all our fun." said Adam.
	"I suppose I mind," said Ibrahim, "to be honest it is rotten, being the only one in the JC."
	"How about" said Adam, "prayer is what we do? To mark the passing of the day. When we eat, after we eat. Before we go to bed. Just what we do as a community."
	"It's a waste of time."
	"Well it teaches you Latin"
	"But why do you need Latin? To pray. It's a totally closed loop. We've moved on from that. No-one speaks Latin any more."
	"Except the Church"
	"Except the Church"
	"But it gives us one language."
	"To make us feel better than other people. Don't you see that that's all there is to St Tom's, Adam? It's a trick to make you feel you're superior to everyone else, so you knuckle down, and get your grades. And get money, so you can send your children to St Tom's too."
	"We've come full circle" said Adam.
	"We've come full circle."
	"We've never talked like this, before" said Adam, "somehow it's different, with the others there." 
	Eventually they fell asleep, snuggling down into the unaccustomed soft pillows and deep duvets. The room was glowingly warm, as well. In the morning there was bacon and eggs for breakfast, instead of porridge.
	Cecilia's father drove them all back to St Tom's in time for Sunday Mass.

Meanwhile Mandy had been taken out by her social worker. They went to the village, and bought fish and chips from a small shack. They went back to the social workers' car, which was a green hatchback, to eat them.
	"We never have chips" said Mandy, "just boiled potatoes, or occasionally roast ones."
	"They're trying to give you a balanced, healthy diet" said the social worker, "but chips just once won't harm you."
	Mandy privately thought to herself that boiled potatoes every day was hardly "balanced", but held her peace.
	"I need to know that you are getting on OK at St Tom's" said the social worker.
	"Oh, OK, I suppose" said Mandy, a bit sullenly.
	"Well do you have friends?" asked the social worker.
	"A few"
	"So can you tell me who your friends are?" she asked.
	"Well there's blonde Mary, and Olivia, and Jade" said Mandy.
	"What about the other girls in your year?"
	"Blonde Mary is in my year" said Mandy.
	"Mandy", said the social worker, bring out a piece of paper, "I want you to draw a circle, with yourself at the centre. Then put on all your relationships, with the most close nearest in."
	Mandy scribbled a stick character for herself, then added blonde Mary in the centre, Jade and Olivia in the next circle. She thought.
	"That's it?" asked the social worker.
	"That's it" said Mandy.
	"Mandy, it's not a failure if you leave" said the social worker, "if you really are so unhappy here."
	"There's only ten in a class" said Mandy, "and I'm not the worst. In fact I see myself getting better as the weeks go by. I wouldn't have that anywhere other than at St Tom's. If I stick it out here I can leave, go to a good university, get a good job. My life will be set."
	"You can go to an equally good university from a comprehensive." said the social worker, "I went to a comprehensive and I got an upper second in social studies from Bradford university."
	"No you can't" said Mandy, "not from care, you can't. I'm sticking it out at St Tom's and getting that degree, and no-one, no girl, no monk, not you, not especially that bitch short Mary, is going to tell me that I'm not. I don't care how much they hate me, I don't care even if I hate myself. I will never, ever give up."
	"OK, calm down Mandy, I'm trying to help you." said the social worker. "Maybe we need to discuss why you feel so tense."
	"Maybe we don't talk about me and my problems. Even I get bored of them sometimes" said Mandy.
	They finished the fish and chips. They went into the Tescos and Mandy bought herself a nice pair of trainers, using the money she had got from Jade and Olivia.
	"They're only Tescos but they're better than the gym shoes I had to run in" she said.
	"Do you do a lot of running, Mandy?" asked the social worker.
	"Oh, lots".
	"Do you want me to come back on the ferry with you?" the social worker finally asked, after their time was up.
	"That would be nice."
	The ferry made its way back to the island. As she disembarked, Mandy slipped the boatman a few coins. The social worker looked surprised.
	"Always tip the boatman" said Mandy.
	"See you in the morning" said the social worker.
	"In the morning" said Mandy.

There were a few girls from the upper years lounging about wistfully in the Junior Calefactory. These were also ones whose parents, for one reason or another, had not been able to visit them, and unlike Adam and Abagail had not been invited out. Mandy made herself a cup of tea, then reported to Matron for bed.
	The dormitory was completely deserted. Mandy went to the toilet cistern and gazed admiringly for a few minutes at the wraps, protected from the water by a plastic bag and then by clingfilm round each one. Only she and blonde Mary knew they were there.
	"If I flushed them they'd go straight out to sea" she thought to herself, "no-one will ever know."
	Mandy wrapped her duvet around herself. A great sadness overtook her, and, with no need to hide her emotions, she cried long and bitterly into the pillow. She had been crying for about two hours, working over all the petty insults that the others had inflicted upon her in the Coventry, and then the even worse things that had happened to her before arriving at St Tom's. Finally she was exhausted.
	"Mandy" said someone, as though it were a question.
	"I like Mandy" said someone else, then said something else that was unintelligible.
	"That's the idea of a monastery, to turn out religious." said the first.
	"Adam?" said Mandy, but there was no Adam there. She was fast asleep.
Chapter 9. The Marys fall out

	Short Mary had had a terrible trip out, with her parents constantly squabbling. She needed to decide whether to stay at St Tom's, and it just wasn't the right environment in which to make that decision.
	"I can't say the other girls are up to much" she told her parents, "and doubtless I'd find a friendlier bunch somewhere else. But Abbey and Cecilia are OK with me. Abbey's father is only a computer programmer, but her mother has money, and she's a nice person. Cecilia's spolit and goes on terribly about that horse of hers, as though people who can't ride are inferior. But I wouldn't say she's bad."
	"Brother Dominic felt you needed more time to settle in" said her father.
	"But Br Dominic would say that" said her mother, "he admitted as much himself. It's what we want, not what Br Dominic wants, that counts."
	"It would seem such a failure to be the only one to leave, at half term" said short Mary, "in fact I can't believe we're having this discussion. I should be having fun."
	"It won't matter what the others think, once you leave" said her father.
	"Oh, don't say that" said the mother, "it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter. Of course it matters what other people think of you. But if St Tom's isn't right, get that over sooner rather than later. Come, I'll take you back home right now, if you prefer."
	"I need more time to decide." said short Mary.
	"By then it might be too late" said her mother.
This gave rise to another furious squabble, with her father saying that she could leave any time.
	"I can last out a term" said short Mary.
	It was on this note that they returned to the island, some time after Matins.

Abagail and Cecilia were already there.
	"Abbey" said short Mary, "can you do a trick on blonde Mary's mother? She was so awful to my poor dear Mummy."
	"What sort of trick?" asked Abagail.
	"I don't know" said short Mary, "think of one."
	"The thing is" said Abagail, "I rather like her."
	"O come on Abbey" said Cecilia, "don't be so easily fooled. I'm surprised you don't see right through her. She needs taking down a peg or two, for flashing her money around in such a vulgar manner. Play a trick."
	"She was so horrible and rude to my mother" said short Mary, "she told me all about it. Refusing to queue because she was too grand."
	"OK, I'll think about it" said Abagail, "as long as you take the rap for it if it all goes horribly wrong."
	"I promise" said short Mary.

Abagail thought for a while. The first years were serving the big formal lunch. Abagail wasn't sure whether this was a tradition or part of their punishment for the adventure on the boat. She went into the kitchen and saw the venison pastries laid out, set for each table. There were also copious bottles of wine. She smiled to herself. This would be almost too easy.

Sebastian, Albert and James all arrived, parents in tow, on the same boat. Sebastian and James were in the choir so had to endure Br Bernard's last minute rehearsal. However the monk seemed far more satisfied than either had expected.
	"Just sing like that" he said, "and we'll be fine."

Blonde Mary was the last to arrive. They had driven all the way to Edinburgh where they had stayed in the best hotel, and bought expensive things for blonde Mary; perfume, and make up, and a new fountain pen embossed with gold. She wasn't allowed computer games or other electronic entertainment, except for a personal music player which she already had, but she had a new memory card for the player. 
	Abagail felt a little bit bad about what she was going to do. Then blonde Mary's mother kissed Sebastian's father, her lips lingering just a little too long on his cheek. "Maybe Cecilia's right" she thought, "poor Mary."
	Blonde Mary was annoyed because her mother had not even countenanced moving her from St Tom's. She thought that when her mother complained about Fr Abbot not letting her use the helicopter she was in with a chance, and would realise what a terrible oppressive place the school was. But not a bit of it. If anything, she seemed to rather admire Fr Abbot for his decision.
	"St Tom's is the best place for you, darling", she said, in a determined way.
	"But Mum," said blonde Mary, "can't I stay with you?"
	"You know that moving about all the time isn't good for you." said her mother.
	"But Mum, I could stay at New York while you're in London and California. The butler can look after me." protested blonde Mary.
	"Absolutely not" said her mother, "you're going back to St Tom's darling. But don't worry, Mummy will be overjoyed to see you at Christmas, and we can go to New York or California, whichever you want."
	Blonde Mary had the sense to put her cheerful face on as the boat neared the monastery jetty, and none of the other girls had any idea what had passed between her and her mother.
	"Lovely to see you" said blonde Mary to Cecilia and Abagail, "just one day away from the dorm and I'm missing you already. Where is Mandy?" she hugged Mandy as she ran up to her.
	"I really missed you, Mary" said Mandy, truthfully.
	
	Sebastian's father had finished making arrangements to meet blonde Mary's mother in London, and it was time to assemble in the chapel for Mass.
	The monks and children celebrated high Mass with a dignity and style seen nowhere else in the Church, or in the world for that matter. Weeks and weeks of hard work by Br Bernard had gone into the music, and the childrens' tone, assisted by the superb acoustics of the chapel, was perfect. Fr Abbot, dressed in golden vestments, for that day was the feast of All Saints, led the congregation in prayer, facing the image of Jesus crucified above the altar.
	Incense swirled to heaven as the choir sang Kyrie Eleision, and the congregation sang the responses.
	"Kyrie-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-Eleison"
	"Kyrie-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-leison"
	"Christe-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-leison"	

The readings were all in Latin, which the older years could follow, but not the first years, nor the vast majority of the parents. However there was a translation in the specially printed books. Fr Abbot then gave his homily. Adam had been expecting some sort of eulogy about the school, but in fact Fr Abbot talked about saints.
	"The word 'saint' means 'holy'", he said, "what does 'holy' mean? Well, it is one of those words which is very difficult to define in terms of other words. In the Old Testament, it meant something set apart for the use of God. So this island, dedicated to the service of God, you could say is 'Holy'. This chapel in which we having Mass, you could say is 'holy'. The monks, you could say, are 'holy men'. But that doesn't mean that all of the monks are saints. (laughter)
	To find out what a saint is, we need to look at the English meaning of the word 'holy'. It just means 'whole'. That is is, healthy, complete. A saint is someone who is healthy. Not physically healthy, of course, though it is easier to be a saint if you have no serious health problems, not even mentally healthy, though here it is maybe more obvious that bad mental health leads to spiritual problems. A saint is someone who is spiritually healthy. 
	So what do we mean by spiritual health? That is the mystery, is it not? Is the man who is always at Mass spiritually healthy, or is he just obsessed with religion? What about the man who is tortured with guilt over something he has done is his past? is he more or less healthy than the man who has done the same thing, yet is not bothered by it? It is easy to say 'spiritual health', much harder to actually achieve it. There are lots of fake cures, crackpot methods like aromatherapy on the market, saying that if you just rub these smelling oils into your body, you will achieve physical health. There are also lots of fake cures on the market, saying, 'take these and you will achieve spiritual health'. The interesting thing is that the fake physical cures, and the fake spiritual cures, are usually one and the same thing. These acupuncture needles 'rebalance spiritual energies'. Or this special diet 'stimulates the holistic mechanisms of the body to heal itself, and puts the mind into harmony with the rhythms of nature, so that it can achieve mastery of the psycho-physical self' . What seem at first sight like medical claims turn out to be moral claims. This is false spirituality.
	Real spirituality is always based on love. Which includes love of the self, but only in the most basic, most childish form of spirituality. The saint loves other people, but he does something else, which is even more difficult. He accepts love. It is more blessed to give than to receive, because giving gives one a sense of superiority. It is just as saintly to receive as to give. Love is fertile. You know it is real love when it is producing things of value; real friendships, real activities, real works of art. Ambition on the other hand is sterile.
	The desire to be saint can never be selfish. Of course we want to be happy, to be physically healthy, to be thought of as good people. But in Christianity a saint 'shows heroic virtue in the face of the hostility of the world'. Sanctity will make you enemies. It will not put you in harmony with humanity, because humanity is fallen. But that doesn't mean that the saint will often have to go without any friends. Normally there are other people we can rely upon. We journey as a community, not alone."
	The homily went on a bit longer, and Adam began to get bored. Then it was time to sing the creed, and communion. Finally it was the last hymn, and Fr Abbot, followed by the altar servers, the monks, and the choir, processed out of the chapel.
	"Absolutely beautiful service" said Albert's mother, "beautiful singing, and incense too."

Abagail, together with the other first years, went to the kitchen. 
	"Start with wine" instructed brother Damian, "white for the starter, red for the venison. However if they want red to start with, let them have it."
	"Don't worry", said Albert, "we get to eat later."

Tables were arranged by years, with parents seated separately and also arranged by years, though a few were out of place because they had more than one child at the school. 
	"Aromatherapy is so last season" said blonde Mary's mother, "I don't know anyone who ever does it any more. If you want to be healthy, rubbing oils onto your body isn't going to help any. No two ways about it, the only way to get good health is through diet."
	"We find ourselves eating less red meat" said Sebastian's father, "more fish and chicken. More pulses and organic vegetables, and fewer fried things."
	"A lot of people feel that way" said short Mary's father, "although I'm afraid we doctors tend to smoke and drink and eat unhealthily."
	"I'm on the macrobiotic diet" said blonde Mary's mother, "tropical foods like pineapple and oranges are fine for people who come from the countries where they are grown, but not for Westerners. So I have blackcurrant instead of orange juice, and muesli without coconut, or ground nut oil, obviously, and only herbal tea."
	"Oh, I only look at genuine medical evidence" said short Mary's mother, poking her ex-husband.
	"In film you don't just have to be healthy" said blonde Mary's mother, airily, "you have to be better than well. It's not sufficient to be free of illness, as it is in most professions, you have to eat your way to health. And exercise. That's what you find in Hollywood. People will only go to the healthiest restaurants, like Jasper's."
	Short Mary's mother looked blankly.
	"It's in town, dearest" said blonde Mary's mother.
	"Jasper's is good" said Sebastian's father, "it's just round the corner from my club, in fact. We repair there when we have mixed company."
	"Completely vegan", said blonde Mary's mother, "they even torch the kitchen utensils so there are no traces of any animal product. And you can have macrobiotic or supervegan."
	"Supervegan?" asked short Mary's father.
	"Without pesticides. They are so cruel to insects, and the birds that feed on them. And those residues build up, poisoning your body." said blonde Mary's mother.
	"But not for Mary" said short Mary's father.
	"Not for Mary" said blonde Mary's mother, "goodness, at her little age, needing to worry about pesticides and residues and things. School meals will be fine for her. She complains, but I tell her if they had more fried foods - the things she likes - it wouldn't be as healthy".
	"When are you next in town?" asked Sebastian's father.
	"For the premier of 'Two Loves and a Rose'" said blonde Mary's mother, "it's soppy, but it's what the public like. So when Amanda Mirabel offered me two 'A'-list tickets, of course I said, 'Amanda, what are you doing to yourself, appearing in this guff?', but she wasn't offended, she needs the money just as much as I do, and romance pays. It's cheap to produce as well, so we're talking major returns here, like three hundred percent on an outlay of ten million?"
	"That's better than we get from the farm" said Sebastian's father, "in fact you'd have to go to some dodgy offshore emerging markets' fund for that."
	"That's showbiz" said blonde Mary's mother, "but it seems to be my lucky day. Because you are just so convenient, Mr Howard."
	"And Jaspers after" said Sebastian's father.
	"And Jasper's after. Where else could I eat?"

	Short Mary's mother scowled, and Sebastian's mother was busy talking to Cecilia's father. Ibrahim and Cecilia served the food.
	"Some vegetables with this, Ma'am?" asked Ibrahim.
	"That would be lovely but no thanks".
	As Abagail had correctly guessed, blonde Mary's mother was a strict vegetarian. So strict, that in fact she could not eat out of the common vegetable dish. However she had had a pastry specially prepared, with a tomato and mushroom sauce in it with slices of something that looked like bean curd."
	The parents began their main dish. Two or three minutes after they had started eating, there was an ear-piercing shriek.
	"That was meat. Oh my God, oh my God!" blonde Mary's mother was in panic mode.
	Short Mary's father patted her on the back.
	"Just choke it out." 
	Blonde Mary's mother took a napkin, and disgorged the contents of her mouth into it. She had turned a deathly shade of white.
	"Induce vomiting" said Albert's father, "you're a doctor."
	Short Mary's father ran with her to the washroom. Ten minutes later he reappeared, looking apologetic.
	"She's just lying down to get over it" he told the other parents, "I've had to administer a mild sedative. However she'll be alright."
	"What a terrible thing to happen" said James' mother.

Abagail, Cecilia, and short Mary could hardly suppress themselves from laughing.
	"She really went to make herself sick" said Cecilia, "how spoilt is that?"
	"Much better than we could have hoped" said Abagail.
	"Thanks girls," said short Mary, "that'll teach her for insulting my mother."

Blonde Mary, meanwhile, was mortified. It soon went round the grapevine that Abagail had done it, and her mother was the laughing stock of the whole school.
	"Like, how would you feel if someone had put a bit of roast dog in your food?" said blonde Mary, to Mandy, "People get really funny about what they will eat, but we all do it. My mother isn't unusual. It was a really nasty, lowdown trick by Abbey."
	The first years were having their meal together. As a special thank you Br Damian had cooked them a creamcake to go after. There was orange juice, and garlic mushroom starters, then the venison pastries, followed by the chocolate shortbreads.
	"Why can't they do food like this all the time?" asked Adam.
	"Wasn't it funny" said short Mary, in blonde Mary's hearing, "when Mary's mother shrieked so? I really thought she was going to die."
	"Meat, meat" said Abagail, "Oh no, I've been poisoned by meat. A chunk of meat has touched my sacred lips."
	"You are just so funny, Abbey" said blonde Mary, shortly.
	"We don't blame you for your mother" said Cecilia, "Abbey would have done it to anyone."
	"Anyone who shrieks" said short Mary.
	"Oh come on" said James, "our one decent meal at St Tom's and you girls can't even enjoy it."

	Parents were kissed goodbye and left on the boat. Blonde Mary's mother, still recovering from the shock, was the last to go. Fr Abbot was most apologetic and plied her with finest Highland malt whiskey.
	"It must have been a terrible misunderstanding in the kitchen" he said, "unfortunately our resources are stretched to the limit on these days, and I'm afraid things like this do happen. I am so sorry, and it is very embarrassing for Br Damian, but he is an old man. I hope you won't criticise him too harshly. We'll buy sealed dishes next time and open the seals in front of you, if you prefer. Rest assured this will not be allowed to happen again."

	A few hours later the prefects, who had been sitting at their own table, filed one by one into the sick bay, complaining of terrible stomach pangs.
	"Food poisoning" said Br Dominic, to Fr Abbot, "Adam has done this before. It must be the same thing."
	"Matron says there are no serious symptoms" said Fr Abbot, "so at least Adam, if your suspicion is true, has learned to use milder poisons. But you know what this means? Letters to every single parent, warning them that there has been a case of food poisoning at the school, and asking for any other cases. It's a major headache."
	"And someone must have put venison in blonde Mary's mother's pastry" said Br Dominic, "I do not for one moment believe that was an accident. We're going to have to get control of these first years."
	"If the children are badly behaved the parents are the first ones to blame" said Fr Abbot, "but I can't afford to alienate a parent.

	The evening was blissfully free. The JC meeting was a debate on hunting.
	"The fox will not die of old age" said Sebastian, getting into his stride, "people who know nothing of animals often think that. Which leads us to the central irony. It is those who live in towns, who don't know about animals, who don't like animals except as pets, who oppose hunting."
	"It's a kind of cultural war against the countryside" said Cecilia, "my horse, Trumpert, was a hunter. Except we can't call him that. But what is he? A general riding animal? If you want to get from A to B, you use a car, we don't do 'general riding' anymore. Hunting is essential to the horse community. It's what you do with a horse,  and now it is banned stables are closing. It's a real tragedy for country people."
	"Well I love animals," said Abagail, "I love them as pets, I love to see them, and I love them to eat. But I don't agree with hunting foxes. You should only hunt for food, not for the enjoyment of it. And deer stalking isn't banned, nor is fishing. Just fox hunting. OK, I will admit that I was brought up in London. But don't imagine that we don't have foxes in London. So should we go after them with the local mutts, and make a kind of London tradition out of it? I don't think so."
	"You don't eat foxes, but they are pests", said Cecilia, "especially in the countryside."
	"I've nothing against pest control" said Abagail, "but in London it is done by Rentokill"
	"Order, order" said Sean, "you don't address each other directly but make all comments to the chair. Enough from first years. Do we have anyone else to oppose this motion?"
	In the event it was pretty overwhelmingly defeated. There was a very vociferous countryside lobby led by people like Sebastian and Cecilia, but they were in the minority. The majority of children came from towns and suburbs, and there was a small animal rights group in the third year which had brought in pictures of mutilated foxes. So St Tom's Junior Calefactory voted to keep the government's ban in place.

	"Fifteen pounds a wrap? Rupert, no thanks" it was Jade. Rupert put his wares away, defeated. Jade wouldn't give a reason, but it was obvious that she had undergone no moral conversion. Rupert realised that someone must be undercutting him, but he didn't know who, and he wasn't sure how to deal with it. However he knew that he must not stand by and tolerate it, either. Too much money was at stake.

	"The best way to be safe from people sneaking on us", blonde Mary told Mandy, "is for them to be customers. If they've used it too, they can't run to Fr Abbot. So we've got to make sure the rest of the dorm use it too. Now I don't anticipate any problems with Cecilia and Abbey, they're always game for a laugh. But we seem to have fallen out with short Mary."
	"I hate that sour bitch" said Mandy.
	"Well sometimes we've got to hide our feelings" said blonde Mary, "that's what Mummy always tells me. I wouldn't put it past short Mary to sneak on us, then we two are in deep trouble, and I mean deep. She's going to find out about our little business, sooner or later, so we've got to make sure she is a user. Now how are we going to do that, given that she hates us?"
	"Abbey and Cecilia might do it" said Mandy, "she likes them, unlike me. She won't want to miss out on anything they do."
	"I think that's the answer" said blonde Mary, "we'll have a dorm party. Without short Mary."

The next day, a letter landed on Fr Abbot's desk. It was wordprocessed, and written in a formal style.

	Dear Fr Abbot,
			We the undersigned wish to make representation to you concerning the state of catering at St Thomas More monastic school.
	As you will be aware, there was a recent case of food poisoning following the All Saints' day dinner. We are not opposed to the use of first years for various menial tasks around the school, including in the kitchen. Indeed such a policy may help overcome the chronic lack of resources in school catering. However we feel it is essential that they be properly supervised, particularly because of their immaturity and perhaps an immature attitude to hygiene. Currently the school lacks the kitchen staff to do this adequately.
	The basic facilities also need improving, as does the standard of raw ingredients. It is fortunate that until now no serious incidents have arisen. However too often, we feel, the basic standard of preparation falls below that which we would expect from a school kitchen. In particular the policy of serving porridge for every breakfast needs review, and a wider range of dishes for dinner and lunch time, together with more care in cooking and preparation.
	This is a formal complaint to you, sparked by but not limited to the recent unfortunate incidents.
			Yours sincerely

			The prefects.

Fr Abbot wrote back.

	My dear prefects,
				I wish to make clear my deep distress at the recent incident of food poisoning. However such incidents occur from time to time in virtually all catering establishments. In this case, no further cases were uncovered and the problem appears to have been limited to one table, and though unfortunate is in no way indicative of a general failing in the kitchen.
	We at St Thomas More monastic school currently enjoy leniency from the Benedictine prohibition on red meat. We should be grateful for our privileges. None of us has too little to eat. Maybe God is telling us something that, on a special feast day, contamination somehow crept in.
	Br Damian tells me that he is satisfied with the performance of the first years during their recent kitchen duty. However I appreciate your anger that this incident has occurred. I suggest you make your views known to them to apprise them of the importance of good hygiene in the cooking and preparation of food.

	With paternal care,
			Guliemus Abbas

	"Lucky to have anything to eat at all" he said to himself, "what have I taught them all these years?"

	Abagail was acid. "That was a completely pathetic trick." she said, "Pretending to be ill so we get into trouble. Couldn't they have thought of anything better?"
	"Well we're in trouble for it" said James, "It's Adam's fault. Poisoning Rupert is coming back, not just on you, on all six of us."
	"Well what could I do with Rupert?" asked Adam.
	"Stand up to him" said James, "man to man."
	"Well really." said Adam.
`	"Well he didn't try to bully me" said James.
	"Oh never mind" said Cecilia, "Abbey was right. The prefects are having their revenge."
	"This means war," said Abagail, "war between us and the prefects."
	"As if" said James, "as if you can fight the prefects."
	"You just wait and see" said Abagail.

	Adam, Abagail, Albert, James, Sebastian and Cecilia were taken into the prefect's common room. A rubber mat, one of the ones used to prevent bed wetting, was on the floor.
	"So, we're going to teach you a lesson" said the head prefect, "and no use running to Fr Abbot. He's given us the hint."
	"We don't like poisoning at St Tom's" said another, "it's underhand, mean, and pathetic."
	"We didn't poison you" said Adam, "it's a lie."
	"Oh, this one has attitude" said the prefect, "you first. Just so you know what it's like to be given poison."
	"Grab him" said the head prefect.
	Two prefects took hold of Adam.
	"Now drink this", a pint of water was forced down Adam's throat. It was salty and vinegary.
	"Swing him"
	Adam feebly tried to protest as he was grabbed by the feet, and swung upside down. Coins and sweets spilled from his pockets. A violent feeling rubbed at the pit of his stomach. Still held upside down, he was violently sick, but his stomach wouldn't expel the water properly because of the position. The vomit remained in his mouth. He vomited again, and began to choke.
	"Put him up" said a prefect.
	Adam was restored to his feet. He was feeling sick again. He was sick all over his uniform.
	"Now you know what it feels like" said a prefect. "Next one."
	It was James. The same treatment was handed out to him, then Sebastian, and Albert, and Abagail and Cecilia in turn.
	"Now clean it up. Uniform inspection in two hours."
	The room was awash with vomit, and it was all over their clothes. The rubber sheet had protected the carpet, but only just.
	"What with?" asked Abagail.
	The prefects handed them a toothbrush each.
	"This is gross" said Cecilia, kneeling down to scrub the vomit from the sheet.
	"I am going to be sick again" said Adam, and promptly was.
	It was horrible. 
	"We'll never hear the last of that blasted boat trip" said Cecilia.
	"Just a bit of seasickness shouldn't put you off sailing" said Sebastian.

	"Mandy, keep a watch for short Mary" said blonde Mary, as Abagail and Cecilia returned to the dorm, "those prefects were awful to you, weren't they, dears?. However we've got something to settle you."
	"What?" asked Abagail.
	"It's a herb. It does for nausea" said blonde Mary.
	"I'd do anything to feel less sick" said Abagail.
	Blonde Mary produced a roll, and lit it. It smelt sweet.
	"Try this" she said.
	"I don't smoke" said Abagail.
	"It's not a cigarette" said blonde Mary, and took a puff, "it relaxes you. You just take a few puffs, not the whole thing like you would with a cigarette." she held the burning stick, "can't you feel it relaxing you already?"
	"To be honest my stomach feels better already" said Abagail.
`	"You have to inhale to get the full effect. Just a little bit." she took another puff, "see, like this."
	Abagail took the roll and sucked on it tentatively. Smoke flooded into her lungs and distracted her form her sickening stomach. She took another, deeper breath.
	"I feel better already, thanks Mary."
	"Cecilia?"
	"I'll try this medicine, but only once." said Cecilia.
	"It's perfect for whenever you feel sick."
	Cecilia took a puff.
	"Mandy, how is the door?" asked blonde Mary
	"All clear" said Mandy.
	"You can just risk a brief go" said blonde Mary, "but don't let the smoke into the corridor."
	Mandy took a breath, blowing the smoke back into the dorm.
	The three girls sat on the floor.
	"Sorry, Mary, about your mother" said Abagail.
	"Oh, don't worry" said blonde Mary, "it was a good trick. No hard feelings."
	"I told her to do it" said Cecilia, "we should have asked you, Mary."
	"It was short Mary put us up to it" said Abagail.
`	"As I thought" said blonde Mary.
	The girls made peace. The roll was soon smoked down to a stub.
	"Get the smoke out before short Mary comes in" said blonde Mary.
	They rolled down the dorm window as far as it would go, and cleared the air.
	"It's cold here" said short Mary, coming in, "what's happened to the heating?"
	The other girls, getting ready for bed, ignored her. For the first time, short Mary felt totally isolated.

	Meanwhile the boys broke into their stash of wine after lights out.
	"You lucky thing, Ibrahim" said Adam, "you didn't have to go through that."
	"Cleaning up vomit. It was awful." said Albert.
	"Sickening" said Sebastian.
	"Anyway, it's over now and we need to relax. Honey will sooth an upset stomach" said Adam.
	"Gorgeous honey" said James.
	"Taste the sweetness of food after lights out" said Adam.
	"We've no corkscrew" said Albert.
	"Never mind" said James, "you just push the cork in. It doesn't spoil the wine."
	Using the back of a knife they pushed the cork right down. It took two of them, Albert and Sebastian holding, and James pressing down with all his body weight. The cork went in with a pop.
	"Hurray" cheered Adam.
	"Shut up" said James.
	"It's best with a bit of water" said Adam.
	"How do you know?" asked James.
	"We had it that way with Cecilia's dad."
	"It's considered the height of sophistication in some circles" said Sebastian.
	"OK" said James.
	Adam poured some of the wine into a tooth glass. Then he added a small amount of water from the tap. He raised his eyes to heaven and said
	"Blessed art thou, O God, King of the universe, who creates the fruit of the vine."
	"Amen" said the other boys.
	Adam took a sip and passed the cup on to James. The cup went round and round until it was exhausted, the it was topped up with more water and wine.
	"It tastes interesting" said Ibrahim.
	"This is good stuff" said Sebastian, "they do things properly, for the parents at least. No cheap plonk at St Tom's"
	"We could do with something with it" said Albert.
	"Almost forgot" said Sebastian, he went to his locker and produced a packet of biscuits. "Bath Olivers. I bought them when I went out with my parents the other day. You bite them between  glasses, to take the taste away. Say grace over these, Adam."
	"Oh come on" said Ibrahim.
	"It would be tempting fate not to" said Sebastian.
	James put his finger to his lips. There was a footstep outside the door, then silence.
	"One of the second years" said Albert, "I can tell Fr Dominic. He walks with very precise, even steps, not like that."
	They waited for a while in silence.
	"Blessed art thou O God,  King of the universe" said Adam, "who creates for us all kinds of food" he gave each boy a Bath Oliver.
	"Is one bottle enough?" asked Albert.
	"For the first time" said Adam, "we've got plenty left."
	"You get sick if you drink too much" said Sebastian.
	"I've been sick enough today already" said Albert.
	The empty bottle was replaced in its hiding place amongst the others, and the carpet drawn over it again. The boys went to sleep contented, the bitterness of the encounter with the prefects washed away.
	
	It was porridge for breakfast again.
	"I've finished my lobster pot" said Albert.
	"What took so long?" asked Adam.
	"Tying all the knots for the net" said Albert, "then I've been making rabbit traps and on kitchen duty every evening. It's finally done at last. However somehow I don't think the prefects will take me out in a boat to try it out."
	"You're right, I don't think they'd like that idea" said Adam.
	"I like venison" said Abagail, spooning runny porridge from her bowl.
	"Ask brother Damian" said Adam.
	"The forests about here are full of it" said Abagail.
	"You need rifles to stalk deer" said Albert, "and where would we steal some rifles?"
	"I was thinking we could be like Robin Hood and the Merry Men" said Abagail, "they used to eat the King's deer. And they had bows and arrows."
	Adam looked at Albert.
	"I don't know" said Albert, "it's possible."
	"Abbey", said Adam, "let's see if we can organise a deer hunt."
Chapter 10. Peace pipes 


	"Bows and arrows" said Br Peter, "Albert, you must give me your solemn word you will never aim these at another child."
	Albert promised.
	"Very well" said Br Peter, "I trust you. It's more difficult than you might imagine. We'll need yew saplings to achieve reasonable strength, which are expensive. Then the bow itself cannot simply be cut to shape, or it will break. The fibres of the wood have to be bent into the arch. However it should be easier than the lobster pot, if anything. We have a lathe, which can be used to turn your arrow heads."
	Adam and Albert started work on the arrows, which could be made of any reasonably strong wood. Br Peter showed them how to beat out the metal for the heads to a rough shape, then sharpen it on the lathe.
	"This is the real handcraft of the modern world" he told the boys, "cutting metal parts to shape for technology. Fortunately lathes have become much cheaper than they were, so we can have one even in a small school like this."
	The yew eventually arrived on the boat, and Albert, with Adam helping, cut it into bows.
	"This isn't going to work" complained Albert, "we can't get enough draw strength. An English archer could draw a hundred pounds or more. We can draw maybe fifteen. There's no way we're going to take down a deer."
	"So what do we do?" asked Adam.  
	"The Indians used poison." said Albert.
	"Where do you get poison from?" asked Adam.
	"Tree frogs" said Albert.
`	"Well that's a lot of use. We can't use poison. Besides, won't it poison the meat?"
	"No" said Albert, "it breaks down when you cook it."
	"So what's the alternative?"
	"Put barbs on the arrows, so they stick in. Then you shoot the prey as many times as is necessary. But it's not an ideal way of doing it" said Albert.
	"It's the only way" said Adam.
`	If Br Peter was surprised when Adam and Albert produced barbed arrow heads, he didn't show it.
	"OK, stretch out your arms" said Albert.
	He measured Adam's arms from fingertip to fingertip, subtracted fifteen inches, and divided by two.
	"That's your draw length, Adam, the depth to which you can draw an arrow. The draw strength we'll have to guess until we get more experience, but it will be about fifteen pounds, less for the girls. Now measure mine." said Albert. "The problem is that your draw weight increases as you get better, and we can shave a bit off the wood but we can't put it back on, and yew is expensive."
	"How long does it take to become an expert archer?" asked Adam.
	"I don't know" said Albert, "we shall find out, shall we?"

The two Mary's had fallen out.
"Do you want to borrow my pencil, Mandy?" Abagail had asked, in Br Kieran's science lesson. Short Mary realised that the Coventry had broken down, and suspected that blonde Mary had something to do with it. However she couldn't bring herself to talk to Mandy herself.
	"Who knows how a helicopter works?" Br Kieran had asked.
	"Mary ought to know" said short Mary, "her mother has a helicopter."
	"It's not exactly that expensive to hire one" said blonde Mary.
	"Some of us care about the environment" said short Mary, "including Fr Abbot. Some don't."
	"My mother raises funds for the rainforest alliance" said blonde Mary, "what do your folks do, Mary?"
	"That's quite enough" said Br Kieran, "anyone know how a helicopter works?"
	"One rotor to keep it up" said Albert, "and the little one for thrust."
	"So what about a Chinook?" asked Br Kieran.
	"Chinook?" asked Abagail.
	"That's one of those helicopters with two big rotors" said Albert, "as used in Afghanistan."
	"So which one is for lift, and which is for thrust?" asked Br Kieran.
	Albert was stumped.
	"That's a common misconception" said Br Kieran, "in fact the big rotor is both for lift and for thrust. A helicopter flies at an angle. Watch one closely next time one comes in to land. The big rotor pulls it forwards, and keeps it up. So what is the little rotor for?"
	"Maneuvering?" suggested Adam.
	"Not a bad guess" said Br Kieran, "but wrong. Mainly wrong, anyway."
	"I know," said Albert, "it prevents it spinning round."
	"You've finally got it, Albert" said Br Kieran, "why would a helicopter spin round."
	"Dazzled by Mary's mother in it" said short Mary, and there was a bit of a laugh.
	"Now you may not realise this" said Br Kieran, annoyed, "but this is probably the most important science lesson of all term. No more nonsense from you, Mary. Albert, Adam, why would a helicopter spin round?"
	"Because the main rotor is spinning" said Adam.
	"So which direction will it spin in?" asked Br Kieran.
	Adam thought a minute. It was Albert who got it.
	"The opposite direction" he said.
	"Very good" said Br Kieran, "know I know some of you are interested in archery. You will find, when you shoot an arrow, that the bow moves in your hand. For the action of the arrow, leaving the bow, there is an opposite reaction, the kick of the bow moving backwards. The same when you fire a gun. And it is the same with the helicopter. The small rotor has to be there to balance the opposite motion of the helicopter, as the main rotor spins. So now explain the Chinook."
	"Both rotors are for lift and for thrust, but they spin in opposite directions" said Albert.
	"Ok, enough from Adam and Albert" said Br Kieran, "whose got any other examples of action and reaction?"
	"A hairdryer" said blonde Mary, "as it kind of twists in your hand?"
	"An electric drill" said James.
	"An egg whisk" said short Mary.
	"What's a egg whisk?" asked Mandy.
	"Like in the kitchen" said short Mary, "Oh, sorry, I forgot. You've never seen inside a kitchen."
	"Nor have I" said blonde Mary, "only the middle classes use egg whisks."
	"I suppose that makes us very middle class" said Abgail, "and Br Damian. Would you say he's middle class, Mary?"
	"He's not in the world" said blonde Mary, "only the world has social class. It's who you are that matters, not what your parents are or do."
	"Some people think they are superior because they have a chauffeur-driven Mercedes and a helicopter" said short Mary, "wouldn't you agree that's totally shallow, Mary?"
	"That's enough" said Br Kieran, finally losing patience, "Mary" (he was addressing short Mary) "I'm putting you in detention. And I'll put the other Mary and Abagail in too in a moment, if you don't pay attention. Now for each force, there is an equal and opposite reaction, but how can we measure it?"
	"We measure the speed of the moving object." said Adam.
	"And its weight" said Albert.
	"You're both right" said Br Kieran, "momentum is weight times speed. The momentum of the action and the reaction must be equal. So we've got a boy, who weighs ten kilograms, standing on ice, and throwing a one kilogram ball. How fast must he throw the ball to move at one kilometer an hour in the opposite direction?"
	"Ten kilometers per hour."
The lesson proceeded without further interruption from the two Marys.
	
Short Mary did her detention bitterly and resentfully. Blonde Mary had been the aggressive one, accusing her of being middle class, and Br Kieran had done nothing about it. She, short Mary, was almost never in trouble.
	"Stop scowling" said the prefect, a tall and handsome girl called Sally, "you'd think you'd been sent to the galleys. It's detention for us prefects too, who have to give up our evenings to supervise you, you realise."
	"Don't you love us for it?" said another girl, a second year, "I'm in tomorrow as well. Talking in Br Dominic's class."
	Sally smiled. "Enough cheek from you" she said, "Mary, chin up, and keep writing."

Meanwhile the others took advantage of short Mary's absence to have another joint.
	"I thought that was really pathetic" said Abagail, "Albert and Adam were really interested in helicopters, and all you and short Mary can do is squabble."
	"Look, my mother just wanted to save a bit of time" said blonde Mary, "we don't own a fleet of helicopters. You hire one, and when you factor in the time saved and the hotel bill, it's probably cheaper than trying to do a journey by car. But Fr Abbot wouldn't give permission for it to land, and now I'll never hear the last of it. I wish I'd never mentioned that helicopter."
	"It's short Mary being the sourpuss" said Cecilia, "it isn't Mary, it isn't really."
	"And Adam and Albert" said blonde Mary, "more than you ever wanted to know about the aerodynamics of helicopters. Why are they so interested?"
	"Because they are boys" said Cecilia, "the lesson was about the helicopter. Now respect that."
	"I respect Sebastian" said blonde Mary, "he's not a technie."
	"Then your Mum would be spinning round and round in her helicopter" said Abagail, "without engineers to keep it up."
	"Well said Abagail" said Cecilia.
	"Where there is pleasure in life" said blonde Mary, taking out the joint, "who cares about helicopters. Anyone care to join me in this?"

	Adam and Albert were in the woodworking room trying to get the first bows ready. James had fought his way onto the games console and was deep in a combat game. Sebastian and Ibrahim, bored, went to find the ladies. They were nowhere in the Junior Calefactory.
	"I know" said Ibrahim, and led Sebastian to the ruins. As he suspected, the girls were huddled for a smoke.
	"Ibrahim, don't" said blonde Mary, "anyone could be following you."
	"What is this noctural gathering?" asked Sebastian.
	"Peace pipes" said Abagail, "we're making our peace with Mary and Mandy."
	"The two Marys have fallen out bitterly" said Sebastian.
	"And short Mary is in detention, which is what she deserves" said Abagail.
	"Take this" said blonde Mary, offering him the joint.
	"I'm really not sure it is gentlemanly." said Sebastian.
	"You think I'd ask you to do something that wasn't gentlemanly" said blonde Mary, "what sort of girl do you think I am?"
	"One like Mandy?" said Abagail.
	Mandy hit her.
	"Sebastian", said blonde Mary, "it's what everyone does, higher up the school. Believe me, with the pressures of work, you need to relax. That's what we're doing now. Of course if you don't want to join us, I respect that. Ibrahim?"
	Ibrahim took the joint and took a puff.
	"Oh, OK, just this once, you understand" said Sebastian, "I wouldn't like to do anything too streety."
	"It's us" said blonde Mary, "not some weird group of people. Rupert, you know him, the fifth year, is the source of supply."
	"Oh, I'm none too fond of Rupert" said Sebastian, "not someone to aspire to be like."
	"But Rupert understands life" said blonde Mary.
	"He knows the good things" agreed Sebastian.
	Blonde Mary took the joint from Ibrahim and took a long draw. "Is it my lips, Sebastian?" she asked, "Do you not feel comfortable taking what I take?"
	"No, of course not" said Sebastian, and took the joint from her.
	"Just a gentle draw. Put it into your mouth but not into your lungs, and least not at first." blonde Mary told him.
	Sebastian coughed.
	"Everyone does that first time" Mandy told him, "second time will be easier."
	"And how much does this little entertainment cost?"
	"Ten pounds a time, so it's two pounds each and surprisingly cheap" said blonde Mary, "but don't worry, we have sources."
	"I thought the supply was courtesy of Rupert?" said Sebastian.
	"Yes," said blonde Mary, "but don't worry. Rupert's not making any money on it. We've ways of ensuring that doesn't happen. Now not a word, Sebastian."
	"My word is my bond" said Sebastian.
They finished the joint, and walked back to the Junior calefactory, Sebastian feeling strange and dissociated from reality. He was glad to hit the dorm.
	
	Blonde Mary had sold some of the perfume that her mother had given her at mid term. It netted her about a hundred pounds. She knew that next time, Mandy would have to pay for her supply, and was determined to have a float. The money meant comparatively little to her, though her mother had told her of the folly of trying to buy friends, and she was not going to subsidise the habits of an entire school. If they could turn a profit, she told herself, that would help Mandy.

Abagail was messing about on the internet, and came across a psychological experiment. The experimenters had placed adverts for a fictitious job, offering a grossly inflated salary for fairly mediocre skills. Their accomplices formed the interviewing panel. The subject was offered a cup of coffee. Whenever he had the coffee cup in his hand, the interviewers were pleasant and interested. When he put it down, they scowled and took notes. Then they became pleasant as he took the coffee up again. Pretty soon, the subjects were constantly drinking coffee. Then as the coffee began to run out they got more and more agitated, until offered another cup. Some drank ten to fifteen cups of coffee. However none of them ever realised what trick was being played on them. 
	Abagail wondered how this could be adapted. "We could do it on the side of the room" she thought. "As the monk moves to the left, we all become really attentive and interested. As he moves to the right, we all act bored."
	"You'd have to get the whole class involved" said Adam, "but it sounds safe to me. If it goes wrong, no-one will ever know."
	"I think everyone will be game, now we've made up with Mandy" said Abagail.
	"Short Mary?" asked Adam.
	"Oh, she's game for a laugh" said Abagail, "don't make that mistake."
	"Who will you do it to?" asked Cecilia, when apprised of the plot.
	"There can only be one person" said Abagail, "Br Jumbo."

The maths lesson was on logarithms. Br Jumbo wrote the numbers 10, 100, 1000, and 10000 on the board.
	"How many zeroes?" he asked.
	Not one hand went up. Blonde Mary was staring absently into space, James fidgetting.
	"Now come on now, you people, how many zero?." said Br Jumbo, "Anyone know dis?"
	Still silence.
	"Now come on, who is the best mathematician? Albert? How many zeroes on dis board?"
	"I am not sure, sir" said Albert, too nervous to do a convincing don't care.
	"You do not know?" said Br Jumbo, walking towards him, and crossing to the left of the room.
	"Sir, they're in arithmetically ascending order" said James.
	"One, two, three, four" said Mandy, "clearly a series."
	"But the numbers go up much faster" said Adam.
	Brother Jumbo returned to the board, and wrote 1, 2, 3, 4 by the number he had written. 
"Dis is all dat a logarithm is" he said, "the logarithm of ten is one, of a hundred is two, of a thousand is three." The children looked bored. "Maybe I am going too fast for you," he said, "anyone know what is a logarithm?"
	"It's the sound a wooden instrument makes" said James, "like bongo drums."
	Instantly he knew he had gone too far.
	"Now don't you be cheeking me" said Br Jumbo, turning on him, "James, you be very cheeky boy." He stepped forward to James to tweak his ear. Abagail gestured desperately to the rest to keep down, and the class held their discipline.
	"De bongo drums is cheeking of me. Now James, sensibly now, what is logarithm?"
	James looked sullenly at the ground.
	"I do not understand this class today" said Br Jumbo, "now anyone, has anyone heard what is logarithm?"
	He crossed again to the left of the classroom.
 	"That was just a stupid joke, Sir" said James, "the logarithm is the number of zeroes in a number."
	"The number of places" said Adam, "the logarithm of 1001 would still be three."
	"It wouldn't" said James, "I've got a calculator. Log 1001 is 3.00043"
	"That's nearly three" said Adam.
	"But it isn't the same" said James, "Sir, how do you work out the logarithm when it isn't a whole number?"
	"We come to that soon" said Br Jumbo, going back to the blackboard. Instantly all the faces glazed over.
	"10 = 10, 100 = 10 x 10. 1000 = 10 x 10 x 10. 10000 = 10 x 10 x 10 x 10" he wrote, "anyone see a pattern here?"
	There was sullen silence. Mandy whispered something to blonde Mary.
	"You not see the pattern?" Br Jumbo was almost pleading, "someone must see the pattern?"
	Still silence.
	"Ten times ten is what?" asked Br Jumbo.
	"A hundred" said blonde Mary.
	Short Mary put her hands together to clap sarcastically, then thought the better of it.
	"But what do we say?" Br Jumbo asked, "ten times ten is ten what?"
	Silence.
	"Squared" he said said finally, and moved to the left of the blackboard to write ten with a little squared sign above it.
	Instantly the class became alive.
	"So a thousand is ten cubed" said Adam.
	"And ten thousand ten what, there must be a term for it" said Sebastian.
	"Tesseract" said Albert, "ten tesseract is ten to the four."
	Br Jumbo wrote them all down.
	"So the logarithm is the number on top of the ten" said Adam. 
	Br Jumbo beamed, and moved over to the right of the board. Instantly the class clammed up.
	"Now when we have 500, what is the logarithm of this? OK, maybe I go too fast for you." he moved back to the left.
	"The logarithm of 500 would be a number between 2 and 3" said Cecilia, "I know. 2.5."
	"About 2.69" said James, checking on his calculator.
	"So ten to the power 2.69 is five hundred" said Adam, "but how do you work it out?"
	"You do it on the calculator" said James.
	"How does the calculator work it out, silly." said Adam.
	"Maybe we are too advanced to work out the logarithm already" said Br Jumbo, "but Adam is right. Ten to the power 2.69 is five hundred, so 2.69 is the logarithm of five hundred."
	He walked back to the right side of the room, and the class lost interest.
	"2 is the logarithm of 100, and 3 is the logarithm of 1000. Now I write 100 x 1000. I can also write this 10 x 10, that is my hundred, x 10 x 10 x 10, that is my thousand. How many tens?"
	No reply.
	"Maybe I go too fast for you. I make it easier. What is ten times ten?"
	No reply.
	 "You know. What is ten times ten?"
	"Twenty" said blonde Mary.
	"That is the adding" said Br Jumbo, “You know, Mary, what is the ten times ten. You can do this sum.”
	Blonde Mary got her calculator out and began tapping at the keys.
	“Really I do not understand dis class” said Br Jumbo, perplexed, “Mary, you do not need the calculator for dis sum.”
	He moved to the other side of the class, and suddenly blonde Mary increased in intelligence.
	"One hundred or ten squared, or ten to the power 2", she said, “so the logarithm of a hundred is two”. 
	"So I can write the multiplication like this. 10 x 10 x 10 x 10 x 10. What is that?" said Br Jumbo.
	"The multiplication is the sum of logs" said Albert.
	"Very good" said Br Jumbo, "you can multiply numbers by adding the logarithm. This is what we used to do, in the days before the calculator. In book you looked up logs, added them, and looked up anti-logs. Adding much easier than the multiply. Now we have the calculator, but still you need to know about the logarithm."
	"You can divide as well" said Mandy, "by subtraction".
	"Ok, I explain that" said Br Jumbo, cleaning the board. His action took him for one last time into the right of the classroom.
	"Don't see the stupid point" said James, "just use a calculator."
	"Yeah, this is really old-fashioned" said blonde Mary, covering her hand with a yawn.
	Br Jumbo moved to the left.
	"But maybe there are other uses of logarithms" said James, "do tell us Br James, we are so interested in this."
	Br Jumbo didn't move into the right hand half of the room all the rest of the lesson. Abagail and James clapped hands as they went out of the class.
	"Practically crawling up the left wall" said James, "as soon as I enter this zone, I lose control of de class. What is going on here?" he imitated Br Jumbo's accent.
	"I thought you'd had it when you mentioned bongo drums" said Abagail, "James, you've got a death wish. But we kept to the plan, and, thank goodness, he moved to the left."
	Br Dominic wondered why his first year Latin class was a fit of giggles.
Abagail called the first years together.
	"OK, next time, it's still the left." she said, "But we make it stricter. We only behave when he's holding something in his hand, like a marker pen or an eraser"
	
	"You should join in the fun" Adam said to Ibrahim that evening, "when he's on the left hand side of the room, show some enthusiasm. You never said anything once."
	"Oh, I don't care" said Ibrahim, "I like to relax, have a good time."
	"But you're not having a good time, Ibrahim." Adam looked wondering at him. Ibrahim had exactly been withdrawn so much as out of his league. When in a group he took the back seat, but when you got him on his own he could be quite forthcoming. But now he had gone back into himself. It was becoming increasingly difficult to get any conversation out of him.

	Meanwhile Sebastian found James an eager consumer of cannabis.
	"Try this, old fruit" he said.
	"What is it?" said James.
	"Dope" said Sebastian, "otherwise known as cannabis, or marijuana, or by vulgar names such as 'shit'".
	"We really take this stuff?"
	"We do. Just don't tell anyone. They can't expel anyone for it or they'd have to expel nearly the whole school. That's unless they have to, of course."
	James tried a tentative puff and didn't like it, but didn't like to say so.
	"It gets easier" said Sebastian, "I was like that the first one."
	
The next maths class the children soon had Br Jumbo standing in the left hand corner of the room, clinging desperately to his black marker pen.
	He ventured out to write 1, 0.1, 0.01, 0.001 on the board, and the class looked about vacantly. As soon as he retreated to his corner, they became alive.
	"You're saying that ten to the minus one is 0.1?" said Adam.
	"Yes," said Albert, "minus one is the logarithm of 0.1."
	"So how does that work? How can you multiply a number by itself a negative number of times?" asked Adam.
	"By dividing it," said Cecilia, "it all makes sense. 1 divided by ten is ten to the minus one, one divided by ten and divided by ten again is ten to the minus two, same thing for one thousandth, which is ten to the minus three."
	"I still don't get it" said blonde Mary.
	Br Jumbo moved to the board.
	"Oh, on second thoughts, don't bother. I couldn't care."
	"You couldn't care, Mary?" Br Jumbo instinctively moved back to the corner.
	"No, I do care, Br James." said blonde Mary, transformed, "I just didn't want to hold up the others. Perhaps you'd be so kind as to explain to me Adam's question. How can you multiply a number by itself a negative number of times."
	Abagail almost had fits of giggles as Br Jumbo tried to explain the concept, standing in the corner, holding his marker, but with no recourse to the board.
	"I think the rest of us all get it" said short Mary, "it's perfectly simple, really, Mary."
	The other girls drew in a gasp of breath.
	"Perfectly simple for you" said blonde Mary, "but I'm just an airhead blonde. 'Math is hard' says Barbie."
	"Mary, you must understand this" said Br Jumbo, "the reciprocal of a number, that is, one over the number, is the number to the power of minus one. Anyone else not understand this?"
	Cecilia put her hand up, even though she understood it perfectly. Br Jumbo moved over to the board to explain it.
	James got ready to flick a paper pellet, but Abagail shook her head. The joke had collapsed.

	"We had him" said short Mary, after the lesson. "He was about to think that that marker pen was magic."
	"You can't insult people like that" said Abagail.
	"Mary? She's thick. Probably her mother bought her way into this school. She shouldn't be holding the rest of us back." said short Mary.
	"You don't judge people by their intelligence" said Cecilia.
	"Then what do you judge them by" said short Mary, "their looks?"
	"You don't judge them at all" said Cecilia.
	"Oh Cecilia, so righteous" said short Mary, and stormed out.

	"She is proving tiresome" said blonde Mary to Mandy, "how's business?"
	"One hundred and forty pounds" said Mandy.
	"Well just remember one word from short Mary could scupper it" said blonde Mary, "we'll have to treat her with kid gloves. Don't overcharge Abagail and Cecilia, either, we'll need them on board."

	Adam, as he often did, took a lonely walk around the island. He could stare for hours into the sea. It imprisoned them, but it also represented freedom. No bells or dorm rules could penetrate beneath those waves. No man had yet succeeded in cultivating the sea bottom. It was totally wild, unbounded existence, and it was just six inches away from his feet.
	"The sea is His, for He made it" thought Adam, "Was that really true?" he wondered, and dipped his hands into the tiny wave lapping up on the shore. If God loved him, would he have allowed him to go to St Tom's? Would he not have made him into a fish, or a great whale, who made their way through the waters? Or into a South Sea islander, for whom every day was a seaside holiday.
	"Show me that you are there" he prayed, "be present to be, be not far from me."
	The waves lapped in reply.
	Adam waited, lost in contemplation, until the distant bell went for Compline.

	Meanwhile Ibrahim, James and Sebastian were smoking in the dorm. Sebastian put a couple of joss sticks in a  toothbrush beaker on his locker, and lit them.
	"If anyone comes in, we say the smell is joss-sticks" he explained, "grossly against dorm fire regulations, of course, but not as grossly against as the sweet herb of paradise."
	"Where's Adam and Albert?" said James.
	"Albert's doing something in the woodwork room. I don't know about Adam." said Sebastian, "this is surely more relaxing than fighting for the Playstation. More civilised too."
	"I wish I was at a civilised school" said Ibrahim.
	"You've got it wrong" said Sebastian, "the richer the school, the tougher and the rougher it is. Civilisation is just a veneer. St Tom's is nothing compared to the big public schools. We have it harder than private day schools, whilst the chaps who go to comprehensives study in comparative luxury. New desks, no bullying, the worst punishment is detention. The only problem is, they don't come out with the same qualifications as we do."
	"And no dope?" said James.
	"They start it at an older age." said Sebastian.
	"Like who made you an expert on comprehensive schools?" asked James.
	"Hush", said Sebastian, "here's someone."
	He darted into the toilet to flush the incriminating, smoking tube of tobacco-filled paper away, but there was no need. It was Albert.
	"I've made the first one and I'm ready to start measuring you up" said Albert.
	"Albert" said James, "just relax."
	Albert sniffed the air. "What are you doing?"
	"It's the weed." said Ibrahim.
	"What are you burning weeds for? I thought that was a joss-stick. Is this a Satanic rite or something?"
	"Nope, dope" said James.
	"Doesn't it do your head in?" asked Albert.
`	"No" said James, "that's a bit of an exaggeration. Don't believe everything you hear. It's a totally natural way of relaxing. Just a herb."
	"Natural substances can be extremely dangerous" said Albert.
	"It's been used for centuries" said James, "in all that time, no-one has died as a result of the weed. Plenty of people have died from alcohol and tobacco, and they're totally legal. Try it, it feels good."
	Albert was a bit reluctant, but there were three of them and only one of him, and he didn't want to be the odd one out. So he took a measured, clinical puff.
	"I can't feel anything, except my throat."
	"You often don't, the first time" James told him, "I didn't, my first time. But on the second and the third one you really start to notice the effects. Try a bit more."
	They smoked for a while, then the bell went for Compline.
	"Oh drat" said Sebastian.
	Reluctantly, the boys hauled themselves out of the dorm, and joined the corridor swarming with St Tom's pupils on their way to prayer.
	"There's Adam" drawled James.

	"Oh God come to our aid" sang the children.
	"Oh Lord make haste to help us".

	"Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit. As it was, is now, and every shall be. To the end of the ages. Amen."
	"That's where it's at" whispered James to Sebastian.
	Indeed it seemed that they sang like they had never sung before. The great cauldron of the universe was opened up before them, the rows of children in the stalls of the chapel peering into it as they contemplated the infinite mysteries therein, the black clad monks in attendance like witches.

	Now that the daylight dies away,
	By all thy grace and love,
	Thee, Maker of the world, we pray
	To watch our bed above.

	"Wow, man" said Ibrahim, until a glance from Br Bernard caught his eye, and he kept quiet.

	The Psalm began

	Out of the depths I have cried to you, Lord:
	Lord, hear my voice.
	Let your ears listen out
	for the voice of my pleading.

	If you took notice of our transgressions, Lord–
	Lord, who would be left?
	But with you is forgiveness,
	and for this we revere you.

	I rely on you, Lord,
	my spirit relies on your promise;
	my soul hopes in the Lord,
	more than the watchman for daybreak.

	More than the watchman for daybreak,
	let Israel hope in the Lord:

	They had said that Psalm many times, but now seemed to have a meaning it had never held before. "It's a Psalm of peace" thought Sebastian, "peace to all nations. Yes peace, peace was where it was at. They were going to unite all humanity."

	Then there was the dismissal.

	Now, Master, let your servant go in peace.
	For you have fulfilled your promise according to your word.
	For mine eyes have seen the salvation,
	which you have prepared in the sight of the nations.
	A light to enlighten the Gentiles;
	and the glory of your people Israel.

	"That was really something" thought Albert, the newness and strangeness of the drug had overwhelmed him. He was finding it hard to keep steady on his feet, let alone sing. He steadied himself with a hand on the stall, and felt slightly sick. However it was wonderful just to be there. 

	"May the almighty Lord grant us a quiet night and a perfect end." Concluded Br Eugene, who was leading. The children said a brief private prayer, rose, and filed out.

	"Adam" drawled James, "you have really missed something. That was fantastic. The way to go."
	"I like Compline, yes" said Adam, surprised.
	"But really fantastic. Man, that's where it's at."
	Repelled, Adam would have left him, but he couldn't because he was a dorm mate. All the others were the same.
	"Let's try another joint" said James, "that was great, just great."
	"It was like the world just opened up" said Albert.
	"Sure, that's it" said Sebastian, "the way to go."
	"No thanks" said Adam, as the joint was passed round the dorm.
	"Just try it" said James.
	"No, I don't smoke and I don't take drugs" said Adam, with a note of harshness in his voice.
	"Man, relax" said James.
	"I don't take drugs, I can respect that" said Sebastian. Adam relaxed for a moment, "peace" said Sebastian.

	The next day the four woke up with sore throats and slight headaches. Matins and Mass seemed interminable. They were also ravenously hungry.
	"You like porridge then?" said Cecilia, as James wolfed down a second bowl.
	"That was stupid" said Abagail, "you were so obviously stoned. Funny, but stupid. James, Sebastian, you can't sing when you are high. Br Bernard was getting suspicious."
	"It was great" said James, "high Compline. We'll do a High Mass next. You should try it."
	"Too dangerous" said Abagail, "seriously, I'm warning you. At least don't smoke enough to make it obvious what you are doing. As for Albert, Albert, acting is not your forte. I thought you were about to throw up."
	"It's no way" said Adam.
	"Listen, Adam" said James, "you take alcohol. So what's the difference with the weed? It's less addictive".
	"It's illegal" said Adam.
	"So's wine, at our age. So that's no kind of argument." said James.
	"Wine is the very blood of our dying Lord. He is Lord of drunkenness as well as of the harvest. But not of dope. That has no sanction." said Adam.
`	"That's a stupid thing to say, and you know it" said James, "admit that you have no rational reason for not smoking, Adam."
	"OK, I will" said Adam, "ultimately instinct is better than reason, and my instinct tells me that cannabis is no way to go."
	"That's where you're wrong" said James, "it's a herb, and it helps people. It helps us, because we are over-worked and sometimes you just need to relax. All the best schools do it."
	"The better the school, the more serious its drugs problem" said Sebastian.
	"Do I have to watch out for you?" said Abagail, "Boys, this is the breakfast table. In case you hadn't noticed we're in the same hall as prefects and as monks. I'm watching all the time whilst you are talking, and do you take a blind bit of notice who might be listening?"
	They hurried to finish before the first lesson.

	"Adam has refused to take any cannabis" Mandy told blonde Mary.
	"I heard, oh damn" said the daughter of the actress, concerned, "do you think there's any danger?"
	"He's an oddball." said Mandy, "but not a sneak."
	"I'm not so sure" said blonde Mary, "he went to Fr Abbot about Rupert."
	"You can't sneak on yourself" said Mandy.
	"Are you so sure?" asked blonde Mary, "seriously, I think he's weird enough for anything. We'll have to keep our identity from him."
	"The problem is I think Abbey already knows it's me" said Mandy.
	"Oh damn", said blonde Mary, "I forgot he had a twin sister."
	"If she's normal why can't he just be normal?" said Mandy.
	"Search me. But Mandy, sweetest, we have more pressing problems. The sour bitch. We much catch her with honey, and with frankincense and myrrh, sweet things, if you understand."
	"I thought myrrh was bitter" said Mandy.
	"And so it is." said blonde Mary, "it will be a cup of bitterness for her. But at the time it must seem like honey. So you've got to forget all your instincts, Mandy. Catch short Mary like the fly that she is. Otherwise this business goes down the pan and you and me are out of this school. Understand me?"

	"We don't need to be in the chapel to pray" said Sebastian, "Abbey was right. It's safer to get stoned after lights out."
	"You're going to pray whilst smoking?" said Ibrahim, doubtfully.
	"That's right. It was fantastic at Compline, and its going to be fantastic tonight. We're going to say Vigils." said Sebastian.
	"Even the monks don't say Vigils" said Ibrahim.
	"But we will" 

	They lit the joint and joss-sticks, and allowed the dorm to fill with heavy, scented smoke. Sebastian shone his torch on his breviary.

	"Oh Lord, open thou my lips"
	"And my mouth shall show forth thy praise."
	
	Adam sat on the bed. He couldn't join in, and he couldn't get away either. Sleep was impossible.
	"Oh God come to our aid"
	"Oh Lord make haste to help us"
	"That's where it's at, man"
	"Let me have that joint"
	"That pattern."

Eventually it was over, and sleep overtook them, including Adam. Next morning they were woken by the bell.
	"That was fantastic, Adam" said James, "you should join in"
	"I can pray without cannabis." said Adam.
	"But it opens a path to God, or to your inner self. Adam, how can you know anything about it if you haven't tried it?"
	"Adam", said Albert, "we spoke of such things, wonderful things, that I thought I would never be privileged to hear."
	"Yes, that was great" said James, "it opens your mind, Adam."
	"But what were these wonderful things?" asked Adam.
	"Like we were all part of a unity, greater then ourselves" said James, "and how petty all this focus of exam results and personal disputes is. It's a real drug of peace. But I can't remember all the details, it was too profound."
	"We could set up a recorder" said Albert, "so we have a memory of it afterwards".
	"Let's do that" said James.

Short Mary was not so out of the loop that she had not realised that Mandy and her blonde namesake were dealing drugs. No one had told her, but she had gradually picked up the truth, from what Abagail and Cecilia had said in unguarded moments, and from the fact that they were hanging around with Jade and Olivia, known drug-users.
	 "I all I have to do" she thought, "is tell on them and they will be expelled. But the other girls will regard me as a sneak if I do. Mandy and blonde Mary won't matter, of course, because they'll be gone. But Abagail and Cecilia, they may take a dim view of it, and they are my friends. Then I've got no proof. Can I really go to Fr Abbot with an unsubstantiated allegation?"
	The crunch came in Br Kieran's lesson. It was a dissection of a mouse. Br Kieran got them to divide up into pairs, so blonde Mary automatically went with Mandy, Abagail with Cecilia. Albert and Adam paired up and James and Sebastian were happy to form a couple. So that left short Mary and Ibrahim. Humiliation stung short Mary's cheek. Imagine being paired with that idiot.
	"You have two mice" Br Kieran explained, "this is an exercise in observation and in drawing. Use the first mouse for exploration, so you know what you are looking at. Then I want you to dissect the second one as carefully as you can, and describe what you see. Don't worry if you don't know the names of all the internal organs. It's the accurate drawing that I am looking for."
	"Yuck" said Abagail, "the smell of these mice makes me want to throw up."
	"That's the formaldehyde we use to preserve them" said Br Kieran.
	"This is oh so gross" said blonde Mary.
	"It's science" said James.
	Ibrahim cut at the first mouse in a desultory way. Short Mary peered at it seriously, over her glasses. "You're spoiling it, Ibrahim" she said.
	"Oh, who cares" said Ibrahim, "cut the other one up, if you're so fussed."
	"I care, Ibrahim" said short Mary, "that one's for after the exploratory work."
	"Look at ours, Mary" said blonde Mary, "leave Ibrahim to his own devices."
	Mandy had indeed dissected the first mouse very nicely, pulling a rectangular flap of skin from its abdomen.
	"These tubes are the gut" she said, "look how they spill out. Not quite sure what that yellowy bit is. Make notes, Mary."
	Feeling humiliated, short Mary copied Mandy's notes into her science notebook. Meanwhile  Ibrahim and James had started throwing bits of mouse at each other.
	"OK, quit that" said Br Kieran, sharply, as soon as he saw it. "Mary, I thought I told you to work with Ibrahim, what are you doing talking to the other Mary?"
	"Mary told me to take notes from her dissection." said short Mary.
	"And why did she do that?" Br Kieran demanded.
	"Because I can't be expected to work with Ibrahim" said short Mary.
	"Did you say that?" asked Br Kieran, of blonde Mary. Blonde Mary was forced to admit that she had.
	"Listen, Mary" said Br Kieran, to blonde Mary, "if I tell you to work in pairs you work in pairs, and I will not have you or anyone else overruling my arrangements. The only reason I won't put you in detention is that that would trivialise things. Now do you understand?"
	Blonde Mary turned white. "Yes, Sir" she stammered.

	Abagail made a rude gesture to short Mary behind Br Kieran's back. Short Mary was forced to return to Ibrahim, who looked sullen.
	The class worked in silence for a while, and Br Kieran eventually risked a short trip out of the lab, to get some cleaning equipment from a cupboard. Abagail said something to Cecilia, and Cecilia left their desk to talk to short Mary.
	"You should really make it up with Mary" she said.
	"What have I done?" said short Mary.
	Abagail swapped Ibrahim and short Mary's good mouse for her hacked exploratory one, then quickly went back to studious dissection.
	Short Mary realised instantly what had happened, but by that time Br Kieran had returned from the cupboard.
	"Good, good, good" said Br Kieran, pleased to see that the bad behaviour had been quashed.
"You should be starting on your second mouse by now. Cut carefully, draw what you see, and discuss it in your pair."
	Short Mary suspected blonde Mary.
	"How do these mice die, Sir?" she asked Br Kieran.
	"In a gas chamber" said Br Kieran, "they are surplus from research laboratory experiments. They kill the mice they have finished with by putting them in chamber with poison gas in it, and we use them here."
	"Do they give them any sort of drug to relax them first?" asked short Mary, disingenouously.
	"No, there's no need. It's very quick and the mice don't suffer."
	"Because the one that was on my desk - it's on Mary and Mandy's now - looked very spaced out, as if it had died of a drug overdose?" said short Mary.
	"No, they don't give the mice any drugs." said Br Kieran.
	"Someone else must have given it drugs then. Thank you, sir, for clearing that up."
	"My God, this is so gross, I'm going to throw up" said blonde Mary, and ran out of the room.

	Br Kieran collected the drawings, and marked them there and then. James and Sebastian had done the best, with Adam and Albert just one mark behind. Cecilia and Abagail, and blonde Mary and Mandy, all got reasonable marks.
	"You see James, you can do it, now a bit less messing around please." said Br Kieran.
	Short Mary and Ibrahim had done the worst. Not just the worst, but disastrously.
	"Some problems there" said Br Kieran, "you just haven't understood the exercise. Mary, your written work is generally very good. But science can't just come from textbooks. Everything you read in the textbook has to come from observation, which is what we're trying to get you to do. On the whole, though, a very successful exercise. Class dismiss."

	"You screwed me up" said short Mary, rounding on blonde Mary and Mandy furiously.
	"You screwed us up" said blonde Mary, "someone must have passed the mouse a drug."
	"So you are passing dope then." said short Mary, "I should have guessed."
	"No, we tried some. Once." said blonde Mary, " And if you hint at that to a monk again I'll ..." 
	"You'll?"
	Blonde Mary was silent.
	"Get Mandy to beat me up?" said short Mary, "She's a vicious little thing, your friend Mandy."
	"Come on, quit this" said Abagail, "I swapped your mouse over, Mary, because you were being such a bitch to blonde Mary."
 	It was time for dinner, which was held in silence, with one of the prefects reading from the rule of St Benedict.

	Prep was torture for short Mary, because a major part of it was "Discuss your dissection of the mouse. How accurately do you think you can depict internal organs, using only standard pins and scalpels?"
	In free time, the other four girls disappeared, leaving short Mary on her own. She realised that blonde Mary was a very different prospect to Mandy. Whilst the others had ganged up on Mandy, Abagail and Cecilia had defected to blonde Mary's side. Leaving her alone. At least the games console was relatively free. She played on her own, nursing boredom and bitterness.

	It was the same story for Adam in the boys' calefactory. The others had disappeared. Compline wasn't quite compulsory. You were permitted to wander away from the monastery in free time, and if you couldn't make the chapel in reasonable time from hearing the bell, you were excused the office. However there was no shelter anywhere else on the island, so unless you were an unusually keen walker, this hardly ever came into play. Prefects did periodic sweeps of the environs to trawl up dodgers.
	However none of the first years were in Compline, with the exception of Adam and short Mary. It was very noticeable.
	Adam reported to Br Dominic for bed early. The others came in a bit later.
	"Where've you been?" he asked.
	"Can't tell you" said James.
	"Can't tell me?" asked Adam.
	"Listen Adam," said Sebastian, "we don't say you're a bad person. Quite the opposite, really. You're a good chap, Adam, a real good guy. We like you ."
	The voice was a bit over-familiar, not Sebastian at all. Adam realised it was drugs.

	Short Mary was surprised to find Abagail and Cecilia waiting for her in the girls' calefactory.
	"We've come to make peace" said Abagail.
	"Look," said Cecilia, "we think this thing between you and blonde Mary has gone far enough, and blonde Mary thinks so too. She's quite upset about it actually. And it's all about nothing. Blonde Mary asked us to bring you."
	Not knowing what to make of this, short Mary followed them to the ruins. Mandy, blonde Mary, Jade and Olivia were sitting there, looking serious. A twinge of fear ran through short Mary.
	"Mary," said blonde Mary, "why have we fallen out?"
	"I don't know" said short Mary.
	"It's because of our mothers, isn't it?" said blonde Mary.
	"Your mother insulted mine." said short Mary.
	"And you played a mean trick on my mother." said blonde Mary, "Mary, I am not blind. I am ashamed of my mother sometimes. I know that she is fussy and over-arrogant, a typical Hollywood woman, and I know how much other people dislike it. But for all that, she is my mother, and I love her dearly. Do you blame me for that, Mary?"
	"No, I don't blame you, Mary."
	"And I'm sure you love your mother too." said blonde Mary, "just as much much as I love mine. So what do we have to argue about?"
	"My mother asked me not to speak to you?" said short Mary.
	"We have to live together in the same dorm" said blonde Mary, "and we can do it as friends or as enemies. I suppose that we do it as friends. If our parents have argued, that shouldn't affect us? Don't you agree that the quarrel was rather silly?"
	"It was about my mothers place in the queue and a Mercedes car" said short Mary.
	"Rather silly, even we wouldn't argue about that, would we?" said blonde Mary.
	Cecilia and Abagail nodded in agreement.
	"Take the pipe of peace, Mary" said Abagail, "be one of us."
	"The pipe of peace?" asked short Mary.
	"This" said Jade, and brought out a joint. She lit it, drawing the first puss to get it going. "You first", handing it to blonde Mary.
	"Now you", and she took the joint from blonde Mary and handed it to short Mary.
	Short Mary nervously took a tentative little puff.
	"Just relax" said Jade.
	"Mary" said blonde Mary, and hugged her. The two girls kissed.
	"Now we're all friends" said Cecilia, "and let's never fall out again."
	"Take a bigger puff this time, Mary" said Jade, "Peace."
	
	Mandy gave a silent thumbs up, behind short Mary's back.
Chapter 11. Adam makes a speech

	There was a frission of excitement as Albert turned on the recording in the dorm. They had made sure that Adam wasn't present.
	"Pity" said Albert, "Adam would have given anything to hear this."
	"It's just too dangerous" said James.
	"Let's hear what we discussed" said Sebastian, "these mysteries are forever captured. I bet no-one has tried to say Compline while high before."
	"They do in Eastern monasteries" said Ibrahim, "probably in this one too, if truth be known."
	"So which monk do you think is stoned?" asked James.
	"Br Damian" said Ibrahim, and they all laughed.
	"Br Kieran too, I wouldn't put it past him" said Sebastian, "I reckon all the monks, over the vacs, are high on weed. It's the motor that keeps monastic life ticking over. But pray, Albert, proceed."
	He had started the recording at the end of the Psalm.

	I rely on you, Lord,
	My spirit relies on your promise,
	My soul hopes in the Lord,
	More than the watchman for daybreak.

	As the watchman hopes for daybreak
	So let Israel hope in the Lord.

	The Psalm sounded rich and full. There was a bit of silence. The boys waited expectantly.
	"Cor, man" said a voice. It was James.
	"That's where it's at", Sebastian.
	There was more silence. Then,
	"Peace, peace, peace is where it's at. We're gonna unite all humanity." Sebastian again.
	"Man."
	"That pattern."

	"Glory be to the Father, and to the Son"
	The lines were kind of slurred, the notes not together.
	"Surely we can get the doxology right" said Sebastian.
	"And to the Holy Spirit, as was, is now" the notes faltered, "And to the Holy Spirit,as was, and is now."
	"Man, that's where it's at."

	Albert turned off the recording, embarrassed.
	"That was just meaningless gibberish." he said.
	"It seemed so meaningful at the time" said Sebastian, "I thought we'd solved the problems facing the world and found the one true religion."
	"You can't understand it unless you're high" said James.
	"Oh, well, never mind" said Albert, "I'll erase this."

	Adam realised that the other boys were excluding him. There was hardly a scrap of free time when all five were together, the other four were always on their own. At breaktime they would talk together, then change the subject, look embarrassed, and find an excuse to move away when he joined the group. Even their games of five-a-side at lunchtime were slowly being reduced. Often Adam was the only one there, so the second years played with the third years, and he was left on the sidelines, watching.
	The girls were no better. Blonde Mary seemed to have taken against him, and all the girls, even short Mary, seemed to kowtow to her these days.
	He tackled Albert after prep.
	"Let's go to the woodwork room and get that first bow finished" said Adam.
	"Maybe," said Albert, "it's a bit of a kid's game, really."
	"You mean you want to smoke some weed tonight?" said Adam.
	"Adam," said Albert, "you're not mature. Relax, and chill."
	"You're not a pot-head" said Adam, "Albert, it's not you. You're not one of them. You know you're not."
	Albert shrugged and went away. Adam went by himself to the woodwork shed. "I can finish the bow by myself" he thought.
	He hadn't realised how deeply he was dependent on Albert. Working alone just wasn't the same. There was no joy to it,  no-one to turn to when he had no idea how far to trim the wood, or how feathers were attached to the shaft. He wasn't sure how to operate the lathe, or to clean out the socket of the arrowhead so that the shaft would fit inside. Albert knew all these details. However he stuck at it, there was nothing else to do.
	"If I have to do it myself" he thought, "I will shoot a deer."
	Two days later, he finally finished the first bow, and the next day the first three arrows. He put the arrow to the notch, and drew the bow back for the first time. A sense of power came over him. He realised that he carried in his hands a weapon capable of killing another person. He left the woodwork shed, and shot the arrow as far as it would go. It travelled about a hundred yards, far further than he had imagined possible.
	"Albert got the draw strength right" was his only thought. But Albert wasn't with him any longer. He was on his own.


	"I've noticed a sudden deterioration in the first years' academic work" said Br Dominic, at the staff meeting.
	"Seconded" said Br Kieran.
	One by one all the monks agreed. The first years' work had got markedly worse over the last week or so.
	"The one I'm mainly worried about is Adam" said Br Dominic, "he seems positively tortured these days, as though carrying some burden. I had thought that we had reached a turning point with his Latin, but it seems not. His last prep was awful."
	"Ibrahim maths, it no good" said Br Jumbo.
	"Ibrahim is going to have to leave" said Br Kieran, "sorry, but no two ways about it. He doesn't get basic science, he doesn't ask any questions in class, he doesn't answer anything unless you push him and then a shortly as possible."
	"He does have a reasonable voice though" said Br Bernard. 
	"It's early days, brothers" said Fr Abbot, "we're only into the first term. Let's not worry too much about this problem. Don't make a fetish of examination success."
	   
	Adam felt strangely flat after the bow was finished. Now there was nothing to do. He found himself taking another walk by the beach, wrapped in his overcoat against the bitter cold.
	"Though a thousand fall at my left hand, and ten thousand at my right", he thought, "it shall not approach me. I will only look with my eyes, and see the recompense of the wicked. For the Lord is my refuge, the Most High, my dwelling place". 
	The waves lapped in sympathy.
	The next lines of the psalm came to him. "You will tread upon the lion and the cobra, the lion cub and the serpent you shall strike down".
	Adam suddenly realised what he had to do.
	He spent the rest of the evening staring out into the black sea, gathering strength. Then he went to Abagail.

	"Abbey," he said, "I want to put through a JC motion, and I want you to second it."
	"What" asked Abagail.
	"This JC supports the imprisonment of cannabis users."
	"Adam" said Abagail, "you've gone far enough with this nonsense. You're embarrassing me, and no, I don't agree with you."
	"So you're one of them" he said.
	"Everybody is" said Abagail, "Adam, it's not us and them, it's you and everybody else. Why can't you be just normal?"
	"So whose giving you the drugs?" asked Adam.
	"It's ten pounds a wrap and we club together to pay for it" said Abagail.
	"Abbey, we can't afford that sort of money." said Adam. The sense of betrayal was total.
	"It's vulgar to worry too much about money" said Abagail.
	"That's because poor people like us have to" said Adam, "Abbey, Cecilia and the Marys get allowances from their parents. We get almost nothing."
	"Well we can ask Mummy for more." said Abagail, "Anyway, blonde Mary sometimes pays it."
	"Abbey, your body is not to be poisoned." said Adam.
	"I can do what I want." said Abagail.
	"No you can't." said Adam.
	"Why not?" Abagail demanded.
	"Because it is not your property. You did not buy it, you did not make it, it was given to you from on high". said Adam.
	"Adam, please drop this." said Abagail.

	Having failed to secure Abagail's support for his motion, Adam went to tackle Albert.
	"I've done the first bow, care to try it out?"
	A flicker of interest crossed Albert's face.
	"Come on Albert, you've put more work into this than me." said Adam.
	The two boys made their way to the woodwork shed. Albert took the finished bow.
	"Fire" said Adam.
	"You don't fire a bow", said Albert, "you shoot it."
	"Shoot, then" said Adam.
	"That sounds kind of funny" said Albert.
	"Like shooting heroin?"
	"Kind of like." said Albert.
	"That's what you'll be doing before you know it" said Adam, "Cannabis is a gateway drug."
	"Gateway drug?"
	"It opens the gate to the harder stuff."
	"Me, never?" said Albert.
	"You'd have said that about pot three weeks ago." said Adam. "It's not you, Albert, you know it isn't. Anyway, shoot."
	Albert stretched the bow back, and shot off the arrow.
	"Owch"
	The arrow had burned a big red mark on his hand.
	"We need gloves." said Albert, "The metalwork ones will do for now. I'll get some proper protectors made up."
	"See how far that arrow went?" said Adam.
	"Impressive" agreed Albert.
	"So we can take a deer at two hundred yards." said Adam.
	"Not necessarily. It depends what accuracy we can get. Then the arrow loses power as it gets to the end of its flight. I'm worried as it is that we don't have enough firepower to take down a deer. But promising, yes." said Albert.
	"Albert" said Adam, "I'm putting a motion through the JC, calling for the imprisonment of cannabis users. Will you second it."
	"That's supporting imprisonment of myself." said Albert.
	"You're already imprisoned, on this island." said Adam.
	"That's true," said Albert, "you won't drop this one-man anti- drugs crusade, will you Adam?"
	"No" said Adam.
	"You make yourself very unpopular" said Albert.
	"But you're still my friend" said Adam.
	"I'm still your friend" said Albert, "look, I'll second it so that it can be proposed, but don't expect me to defend it. Then maybe you'll realise what an idiot you are being, when no-one agrees with you."

	Next evening Adam was back on the beach, preparing his great speech for the Sunday evening JC meeting. He rehearsed it slowly in his head. He knew that it was a no-hoper motion, but that wasn't the point.
	"Adam wants us in prison" said blonde Mary, to Mandy.
	"How come?" asked Mandy.
	"He's put a motion through to the JC calling for cannabis users to be sent to prison." said blonde Mary.
	"The idiot." said Mandy, "You can debate legalisation, that's reasonable. But this is so ridiculous. Sean should have ruled it out." 
	"Well he hasn't done" said blonde Mary, "Mandy, we've got to be careful. He might be trying to flush us out."
	"You mean sneak on us?" said Mandy.
	"That's what I mean. Abbey already knows, but I don't think she's told him. But it's only a matter of time before he finds out." said blonde Mary.
	"Anyway, I've got to go" said Mandy.

	Adam saw a light far off. Initially he thought it was the ferry, but it veered from the normal ferry course. It seemed like it was about to circumnavigate the island.
	"I wonder if I can catch it" thought Adam, idly. He had a torch. It was impossible to run along the path that encircled the island when all was dark, but you could still go at a reasonable pace. From his new elevation he could see it. It was impossible to tell what distance it was at.
	"If I walk round the island I should be back for Compline" thought Adam, checking his watch, "And I can see where that ship is going."
	He followed it round for some distance. Suddenly, it started flashing. Adam stared at it. It flashed again, directly at him.
	"My torch" he thought, "they can see my torch from the sea".
	He turned it off and lay down. 
	The light seemed to come nearer and nearer, though again it was difficult to judge distance. Adam realised that it was approaching the disused jetty. Fear seized him.
	"What if they are coming to get me?" He wondered how quickly he could make it to the monastery.
	"Get off the path" he thought. He couldn't travel any distance without a torch, and a light would give away his position. It was safest to hide and wait.
	The light flashed again, and there was another light, flashing from the shore. The light on the shore then moved all the way up the jetty, a tiny pinprick of light, but very visible in the blackness. The lights merged.
	"They've landed" thought Adam, in panic, "and they'll know I saw them. Oh God, come to my aid."
	The little pin-prick of light left the main light a couple of minutes after, and the lights separated. Adam hid himself.
`	Footsteps were coming up the path, little light ones. Adam risked a peek. He could see a torch moving. Then the figure came within a few feet of where he had concealed himself. He recognised that silhouette. It was Mandy.
	Adam waited a safe time, then legged it back to the monastery in the opposite direction. Mandy, as good as gold, was at Compline.
	
	"You've put in a motion to send us to jail" said James, that night, accusingly.
	"Well, you deserve to go to jail" said Adam.
	"How come. Adam, I'm going to beat you up. This is your way of sneaking on us." said James.
	"You deserve to go to jail, well wait for my speech to find out why." said Adam, "James, you don't impress me."
	"Then maybe this will impress you" said James, landing him a punch on the face. Adam punched back, but missed.
	"Hey up" Sebastian intervened, "Adam, you've got to choose between us or the school. How can anyone trust you?"
	"For God's sake just smoke some dope and have this nonsense over with" said Albert.
	"No way" said Adam, "how many times have I said, I do not do drugs."
	"We're not addicted, you know" said Ibrahim.
	"Your brain is addled, Ibrahim" said Adam, "if you want the truth."
	"Which you are going to say, at the JC meeting" said James.
	"No, I'm not going to say that" said Adam.
	"Then what are you going to say?" James demanded to know. "Albert, you seconded this stupid motion, why did you do that?"
	"Get it out of his system." said Albert.
	"So if you lose the vote, will you take some dope?" asked James.
	"No" said Adam.
	"But if you win you will expect us to stop taking it" said James.
	"Yes" said Adam.
	"Don't you see how completely unreasonable that is, Adam? We've had enough of your self-righteousness." said James.
	Br Dominic was heard on the staircase calling for lights out, and still angry the boys pulled the covers over themselves.

Albert was shocked when his mark for maths prep came back. The others had also done badly, and he tried to tell himself that it was a hard exercise. However he knew the truth. Maybe it was the dope itself, maybe it was all the fuss over it that had distracted him. Albert had no intention of getting poor marks, and not going to a good university. His parents weren't especially rich, and were cutting back hard on holidays and meals out in order to afford his St Tom's school fees. He was beginning to think that Adam was right all along.
	When the joint came round the next day he took a tiny puff, and didn't inhale, passing it on as quickly as he dared to James.
	"Where's Adam?" drawled James.
	"I don't know", said Albert, truthfully, "maybe he's doing woodwork, or maybe by the beach."
	"He spends too long at that beach. What's he doing there?"
	"Just staring out to sea, in the dark." said Albert.
	"He's getting seriously weird" said James.

In fact Adam was doing a survey of shipping. He wanted to know how many ships or boats were usually to be seen in the vicinity of the island, and whether any more of them made secret landings on the old jetty. In fact the stretch of water between the island and the mainland was fairly quiet. Big ships never went though it. Occasionally there was a small pleasure craft embarking or disembarking from the village, and the ferry would make periodic visits to the island. The only other vessel he saw was a lobster-fishing boat, which visited and revisited buoys moored in the strait. But that was about it. Otherwise boats were very rare.
	If you walked right round the island they became more common, but they were mainly big vessels, in the distance, making their way to Belfast or to Liverpool. In the dark you couldn't tell a big, fast ship at far distance from a slow, small ship in the near distance, but the big ships kept mainly on the same lane. Adam was reasonably confident that he could discount them. However nothing came to dock at the old jetty. 

Blonde Mary allowed short Mary to smoke with the other girls for a couple of more occasions, to get her established as a regular cannabis user. Then it was time for revenge.
	They were back in the old graveyard, before Compline.
	"We play a game" said blonde Mary, "we stretch a bit of tissue paper over a cup, and put a coin on top of it. Each time you take a smoke, you have to either burn a hole in the tissue, or burn out a bridge. If you don't do it, penalty five puffs. If the coin drops, you lose the game, and you buy the next joint."
	"OK" said Abagail, a bit dubiously. She couldn't afford to buy too many joints, on her own. 
	Blonde Mary arranged matters so that she was to the left of short Mary, and Mandy was to the left of her. They had played this game before with Jade and Olivia. Mandy had her head screwed on well enough to give blonde Mary easy holes, whilst blonde Mary could make life as difficult as possible for short Mary. Abagail and Cecilia just played for themselves in a  sporting spirit.
	Initially it was easy, then as more and more holes were burned in the tissue, it became harder and harder to find a hole or bridge to burn that would not precipitate the coin to the bottom of the beaker.
	Blonde Mary deftly burned most of the way round for short Mary, leaving the coin suspended by a thread. Short Mary took a tiny nibble out of the edge, and received a five puff penalty. Abagail tried to burn out a bridge, and the coin clinked in the bottom of the glass. Abagail scowled and produced a ten pound note.
	"Finish this joint first" said blonde Mary, "Mary?"
	Short Mary took the joint and took a puff. Blonde Mary took it back, and took a slight puff. "None for you, Abbey" she said, "Mandy?"
	Mandy obligingly smoked a small amount.
	"Finish it off, Mary" said blonde Mary, giving it to short Mary. Short Mary did so.
	The second joint went round. Short Mary by now was losing a bit of concentration. One of her holes got too big and became a nibble, and she received another five puff penalty. Abagail made the same mistake. Cecilia passed correctly, then Mandy deftly made a small hole, leaving an easy bridge for blonde Mary to burn out. The task went to short Mary. She tried to burn a small hole, and the tissue paper flared up. The coin clinked in the bottom and the girls laughed.
	"Ten pounds" said blonde Mary, "but to sweeten the blow for you a little, dearest, the rest is yours."
	Abagail scowled again, but there was nothing she could do.
	Short Mary smoked the rest of the joint, and then the bell went for Compline.
	"Don't go to Compline, Mary" blonde Mary warned her, and the others deserted her.
	It was forbidden to miss Compline if you were in easy hearing of the bell, and prefects occasionally did sweeps. Short Mary wondered what to do. If she had been thinking straight she would have realised that she could leg it off to the beach with minimal danger, but she wasn't thinking entirely straight because of the drug. She decided to go to Compline.
	Blonde Mary didn't file into chapel with the others, but hung back a while to wait to see what short Mary would do. She was going to give a hint to a prefect that short Mary was deliberately absent. In the event, however, short Mary appeared down the corridor. Adam was slightly in front of her.
	"Adam", said blonde Mary, all concern, "short Mary isn't feeling well."
	Adam frowned. He had got to recognise the symptoms of drugs by now.
	"What are you going to do about it?" asked blonde Mary.
	"I'm going to get drugs out of this bloody school, that's what I'm going to do" said Adam. "Mary," he spoke sharply to short Mary, "just go to your dorm."
	"Oh Adam, don't take things too seriously. Yeah, I'll go to the dorm when I'm ready." said short Mary.
	Compline began. Br Bernard could tell quite easily that short Mary was in trouble, and in any case some of the others had overheard Adam and blonde Mary talking. He took short Mary aside after the office, and asked her what was wrong.
	"Nothing" said short Mary, obviously spaced out.
	"I think you'd better go to the sick bay" said Br Bernard, "and to Fr Abbot in the morning."

	"Are you crazy?" Mandy rounded on blonde Mary that evening, "she'll tell over all of us."
	"All of us?" said blonde Mary, "listen, Mandy, Fr Abbot is not so stupid that he won't realise that there's a drug problem at St Tom's sooner or later. This way short Mary comes to be seen as the source of the problem. It deflects attention from us. If she tells tales, which she won't, then everyone takes drugs except Adam. Adam will be the only one left. So there's nothing much Fr Abbot can do. He's no way of knowing where they're coming from, and if push comes to shove they're from Jade and Olivia. But she won't tell tales. She's not secure enough to do that, because then everyone will hate her. What she doesn't know is that everyone is going to hate her, anyway."

	Surprisingly to the children Fr Abbot simply gave short Mary a punishment run, and there was no further fuss made.
	"Did he warn you?" asked Abagail.
	"No" said short Mary.
	"Well did he get you to tell him where you'd got them from?"
	"No" said short Mary.
	"Then you must have sneaked on us" said Abagail, "what did he do?"
	"He just said that to successfully conceal drug usage it is necessary to smoke moderate amounts, outside, and after lights out. Take a punishment run, Miss Walker please."
	"He didn't ask anything?" demanded Abagail, again.
	"No" insisted short Mary.
	"It's your fault, anyway" said Abagail, "why did you go to Compline when blonde Mary warned you? You've put us all at risk."
	"I was afraid of being picked up by a prefect" said short Mary.
	"Oh nonsense" said Abagail, "they hardly ever do sweeps, and you can hide."

	"Mary, you are put on warning" said blonde Mary, the next evening before lights out, "you have put all of us at risk. Do that again and you are out."
	"Well the boys did the same" said short Mary, "they turned up to Compline high."
	"That was different" said blonde Mary, imperiously. "Mary, sweetest, we tried to warn you. What can we do if you won't take advice? Nothing, except we're going to ration the amount that you take from now on. For your safety and for ours, you understand. Do you agree, Mary?"
	Short Mary was forced to say 'yes'. After all, Fr Abbot, in his inimitable way, had warned her to smoke moderately.  Blonde Mary was saying the same. She began to feel rather foolish.
	"Now just Adam to sort out" said blonde Mary, "Keep it buttoned, girls, for this stupid, stupid motion."

	"Short Mary didn't get expelled" said Mandy, when she and blonde Mary were together again.
	"No, sweetest" said blonde Mary, "I was kind of hoping she'd get into more serious trouble than she did. However a punishment run can be very nasty. Just ask Cecilia. Don't worry, we haven't finished with short Mary yet. Soon she'll be crying for that vulgar Mummy of hers."

	In fact short Mary cried herself to sleep that night, after the others had fallen asleep. She hadn't achieved the acceptance by the others that she had craved, and she had lost her status as the responsible one of the first form. She regretted ever getting mixed up in cannabis.

	"Oh Adam", Fr Abbot caught him in the corridor.
	"Yes sir?" said Adam.
	"I just thought I'd offer you luck with your motion." Fr Abbot grinned, "As staff I have to remain neutral on JC resolutions, of course."
	"Why thank you, Sir" said Adam.
Sunday evening came all too quickly for Adam, who was working  hard on his motion. He knew that every single one of the first years was against it, even Albert who had seconded it out of friendship to him rather than any shared belief.
	He had been speaking to Ibrahim. Ibrahim smoked a lot. Previously, when you got Ibrahim on his own, you had been able to get quite a lot of sense out of him on Pakistan, or the deficiencies of St Tom's, or atheism. That had stopped.
	"Yeah, relax man. Don't do the Jesus stuff too heavily. You're heavy, you know that?"
	That was about the level of argument you got from Ibrahim these days. He had never been interested or engaged, and now he was withdrawing into himself even more, motivated only by a desire to get the next smoke. A shell, thought Adam, of a human being. Because the cannabis offered him pleasure and comfort in a way, but it was empty pleasure, comfort that in fact could never supply the security they all craved.
	"Fight back"
	That was all he could think, these days. He thought about mentioning Ibrahim in his speech, but he couldn't, not by name.

	There were a couple of motions, one on the quality of coffee in the JC, and and to bar members of the royal family from the calefactory, which was defeated. Then Sean read out the next motion.
	"This JC believes that cannabis users should be imprisoned. Proposed Adam, seconded Albert"
	"I'm not involved in this motion" said Albert, with a laugh.
	"Then I call on Adam to propose the motion" said Sean.

	"Ladies and gentlemen" said Adam, "it seems the only debate you are allowed to have about cannabis is whether it should be legalised or not. Well why should that be the only debate? Why should laws always get more lenient and never stricter?
	"You will also have heard it said that the drug pushers are the really evil people, and the poor users the innocent ones. Well let's start right there. Who are the drug pushers? Not the sinister man standing at the school gates. Oh no. The drug pushers are the ordinary boys and girls, just like me and you, who try cannabis and offer a bit to their friends. That's who pushes drugs. So this idea of evil pushers and poor, innocent, victimised users, I don't buy it.
	"The other thing that is often said is 'no victim no crime'. Who is the victim? You could say the victim is the cannabis smoker who wastes his money and his life - notice we're happy to say the users are the victims when we're pretending it's all the fault of the evil drug pushers. But can you make yourself a victim? I'm not sure if you can - I'm open to persuasion on that one. No, there are victims. Who are the victims? Firstly, everyone who has to put up with the stupidity and self-righteousness of cannabis smokers?"
	There were protests.
	"Oh yes, how self-righteously they pretend to be superior, peaceful, natural people, because of their drug. This wonderful drug which has the potential to solve all human conflict and many human diseases as well. This wonderful drug which a cruel government is denying to them. And the way that they talk. All the while dropping marks and losing interest in anything that is constructive. Pathetic, I say. Stupidity and self-righteousness rolled into one.
	"No, cannabis smokers waste their money. Worse, they put money into the hands of criminals. That's where the real victims are. Everyone who suffers as a result of a criminal culture. Broken down estates. Abused children. Gang violence and intimidation. These are the real victims of the pot-heads. Not us, safely in a private school, but poor people, who can't insulate themselves from crime.
	"Now what you could say is that, if cannabis was legal, there wouldn't be this criminal culture around it. I'd say that, for us, that is a total red herring. There's not one of us, ladies and gentlemen, over eighteen. No-one proposes to make cannabis legal for children. But who smokes it? Teenagers, of course.
	"But this isn't a debate about legalisation. Let the pot-heads argue that one out in their boring, druggy way. This is about the penalty for cannabis possession. If we give a caution for cannabis use, what message does that send? That we don't really believe in the law. That legalisation is just round the corner and the pot-head is in the vanguard of social change. Well we've got to really mean our laws. And that means imprisoning people because it's the only way they will take the law seriously. It's the only way you will take the law seriously."
	There were catcalls.
	"See. Cannabis use is illegal in this country, and the hecklers are openly admitting to taking it. They wouldn't dare if the law were properly enforced. Now how would be jail everyone? I admit it would be difficult at first. So you would ramp up the fines for possession, and jail a few people as an example to the rest. Then as the number of criminals fall, you start jailing every user. There are solutions to these problems. There are too many people ignoring the law, because it is not enforced. That's why I plead for you to pass this motion."
	Adam sat down. 
	"Any speeches against the motion?" Sean asked, and a forest of hands shot up.
	"Adam," said a second year, "would you jail us for drinking and smoking? Because that's illegal under 18 too, but everybody does it. Why should cannabis be the exception?"
	"I think it's insulting to describe users as pot-heads" said Jade, "it's a total misconception that everyone who takes drugs is a sad loser. In fact successful people often take drugs. It helps them cope with the pressures of high-powered positions. Adam is just ignorant and peddling stereotypes. Besides, it's only cannabis we're talking about here, not real drugs like heroin or cocaine. It's called a soft drug because everyone knows it's almost harmless."
	"Adam has never seen a prison" said an earnest fifth year, "I have. It's a totally corrosive, soul destroying environment. And people get exposed to drugs whilst they are on the inside. It costs many thousands of pounds a year to keep someone in jail, and when they get out they almost always reoffend. We need to keep minor criminals, like cannabis users, out of the custodial system."
	"Any speeches in support?" asked Sean.
	"Yes," said a voice from the back, "my brother-in-law, or ex-brother-in-law I should say, is actually in prison as a result of using cannabis, or in a secure mental hospital if truth be know. Cannabis-induced psychosis. It is not harmless. Let no-one tell you that cannabis use is harmless."
	"That link hasn't been scientifically proven" said someone else, "for every person with cannabis-induced psychosis there is another person who is helped by it. Like people with multiple sclerosis, for example."
	"I want to say", said Cecilia, "that it is our right to do what we want with our own bodies. Some people smoke, some people drink, some people do lots of exercise and get an adrenaline high, some smoke cannabis. Whatever. That is your right. I'm not having some government say to me that you are going to jail because of what you smoke in the privacy of your own home, or this drug is allowed and this one is banned. That's what you don't seem to have taken on board, Adam. And another thing, no-one is pushing drugs. People take it because they want to, not because someone forces them to do it."
	"OK, at this stage we normally call on the seconder," said Sean, "but he's decided to play a purely technical role, so I'll hand back to Adam to wrap up."
	"Ok," said Adam, "we hear this argument a lot. Cigarettes and alcohol are legal, so why not cannabis? I'd say there's a difference, and that's the spiritual baggage that goes with cannabis. Cigarette smokers know they they are addicted to something that will give them cancer. It may have been cool to smoke at first, but that pretty soon wears off. Alcoholics know that they are in the gutter of society. But pot heads? They think they are making a statement. Not just a social statement, not just a political statement. No, ladies and gentlemen, the pot head thinks he is making a religious statement. Because smoking pot gives you the feeling that you are better than everyone else. It's that we've got to break.
	"Then there's Cecilia's point, that it's your right to do what you want with your own body. Well no it isn't. Self-harmers are even a bigger bunch of losers than cannabis-users"
	Protests.
	"Order, order. Adam, please conclude." said Sean.
	"Self-harmers, and suicides. A suicide is the definition of a loser. These people deserve no sympathy" said Adam, "and nor do cannabis users. They are damaging themselves, and everyone around them, because ultimately they are living a lie. Happiness doesn't come from a herb, only stupidity and self-delusion. So I say we've got to eradicate this scourge from our society. Support this motion, and jail users."
	There was a round of applause.
	"Votes for" said Sean.
	Adam looked round. There was a handful, including Albert.
	"And against"
	A massive number of hands went up.
 	"Decisively defeated" said Sean, "now to the next item on our agenda. A petition to allow the use of stereo systems in dormitories."

	"That was an idiotic speech" said Mandy, "why can't he just see that nobody agrees with him."
	"Actually I thought it was rather good" said Abagail, family loyalty stung.
	"It wasn't brilliant, just controversial" said short Mary, "there is a difference you know"
	"As if you'd know" said Abagail.
	"Adam is a very good debater" said a fifth year, and that settled it.
Chapter 12. In vino veritas



 
	"Amy, sweetest?" said Rupert.
	"Yes, dear Rupert?"
	They were in the library. Strictly talking was illegal but the rule wasn't rigorously enforced for the senior years.
	"Can you find out for me who Jade and Olivia are hanging around with?" 
	"Why do you want to know, dearest Rupert?"
	"Oh, I'm curious about these things. Burning with eagerness to find out the girls' gossip." said Rupert.
	"Well it's blonde Mary, as the first years call her, and the sidekick Mandy." said Amy.
	"What do they see in her?" asked Rupert.
	"Dollar signs" said Amy.
	"I've got money" said Rupert, mock petulantly.
	"I know you have sweetest" said Amy, making up to him, "but it's all in the bank of Mummy and Daddy. Only the crumbs for Rupert, until he grows up."
	"I dare say blonde Mary doesn't have her own chequeing account either" said Rupert, "what do they have that I don't have, for them to be friends with me?" said Rupert.
	"Oh Rupert, stop it." said Amy, "If you must know, blonde Mary supplies hashish on a pro bono basis, and Mandy is the fall guy in case anything goes wrong."
	"What are you reading, Amy?"
	"The 12 Secrets of Highly Effective People", said Amy.
	"Ovid's Metamorphoses" said Rupert.
	"In Latin?"
	"Of course."
	"Oh look, here's Abbey, my enemy. She should just wait until I'm a prefect next year." said Amy.
	They fell silent to avoid Abagail overhearing any more of their conversation.
	
	"Thanks for supporting me, Albert" said Adam.
	"Look, I'm beginning to come to the conclusion that you were right all along." said Albert, "What if I got caught like short Mary? What if my parents got to hear about it? They'd be mortified."
	"Well Fr Abbot seems to have let short Mary get away with it" said Adam.
	"Maybe if he'd have heard your speech he'd have sent her to jail." said Albert.
	"Maybe" said Adam, "I think I get too worked up. Good speakers are cool and collected."
	"Hitler wasn't" said Albert.
	The two boys laughed.
	"Back to the archery" said Adam.
	"We need to get the others on board" said Albert.
	They set up a target consisting of a plywood board with a bullseye painted on it. The initial results were disappointing. Neither of them could hit the board, let alone the bullseye, from any sort of reasonable distance.
	"We'll get better with practice" said Albert, "the English archers used to do a hour every Sunday."
	"Every time the arrow lands, it get blunter" complained Adam.
	"No problem" said Albert, "just turn them again on the lathe".
	Eventually Albert got a shot. The arrow smashed through the plywood board, and was fixed halfway through.
	"Way hey!" said Adam.
	"That's a powerful arrow" said Albert. "plywood's no good. We need a solid target."
	With some difficulty he cut the board with a hacksaw and extracted the arrow. 
	"What we really need to know is how far it will go into flesh at a hundred paces." said Albert.
	"Hush" said Adam, "Br Peter will hear you."
	"Archery successful boys?" said Br Peter, coming to inspect the damage.
	"We're just getting the hang of it, Sir" said Albert.
	"How's the lobster pot?" asked Br Peter.
	"Finished." said Albert.
	"Then you should catch a lobster. Though in these parts it's more likely to be a crab." said Br Peter.
	"I can't Sir" said Albert, "It's a bit embarrassing, with the boat and all that."
	"Oh, I wouldn't let a little thing like that worry you" said Br Peter, "Everyone will have forgotten that trip by now. Besides, it was my boat that you borrowed."
	"Your boat?" asked Albert.
	"I made it, with my own hands" smiled Br Peter, "if you're wondering what we do in the summer holidays, that's what. Fr Abbot uses me as the community general carpenter."
	"I'm so sorry" said Albert.
	"At least you brought it back in one piece." said Br Peter, "Get some of the seniors to take you out crabbing. As for these bows, not a bad job, not a bad job at all. It's a lot harder to make a decent bow than it looks."
	He took the bow from Albert and flexed it.
	"Should fly nicely. We'll have an archery competition sometimes."

 	"If we can get the other first years off the dope" said Adam, after he had left.
	"Look Adam" said Albert, "I agree with you. But I'm not ready to tell the others yet. Don't expect me to join you, not just yet anyway."
	Free time was up, and they went back to the school.

They were back in Br Jumbo's maths class.
	"What's a natural logarithm, Sir?" asked James, "see, on my calculator it says log ten and ln. Why do you have two?"
	"Log to the base ten is because we have ten finger. No other reason" said Br Jumbo.
	"But what's a  natural logarithm, then?" asked James.
	"You do not need to know this, just the logarithm." said Br Jumbo, "But I will tell you. Natural logarithm is logarithm to the base e."
	 "What does e stand for?" asked Adam.
	"e for Euler, the man who invented this." said Br Jumbo.
	James pressed the buttons on his calculator.
	 "2.718281828459045 it's like PI, it goes on forever." he said.
	"It is irrational" said Br Jumbo.
	"Like Adam," said Cecilia, "Adam is irrational."
	Adam flushed.
	"Let's not have the cheeking" said Br Jumbo.
	"I know what it is," said Albert.
	"Natural logarithm is not on the examination" said Br Jumbo, "and is too difficult for you now. We need practise the multiplication and division with normal logarithm."
	"Oh, go on, Br James" said James.
	"Very well," said Br Jumbo, "Albert, go to the white board."
	Albert went to the white board and wrote up

	1  + 1/1! + 1/2! + 1/3! + 1/4! + 1/5! .... 

	Br Jumbo went to the board and rubbed out the initial 1. He replaced it with

	1/0!

	"0 factorial is one. 0 times itself 0 times is one, but I do not expect you to understand this. This is the Euler number. Albert knows it. Now if you like we can explain what is the natural logarithm." said Br Jumbo.
	"This is a bit beyond me" said blonde Mary.
	"If it is not on the examination, it's a waste of time" said short Mary.
	"No, I didn't say that, Mary" said blonde Mary, "I said it was beyond me, not a waste of time  for the others."
	"There's more to life than passing exams" said Cecilia.
	"Much more", said blonde Mary, "you just don't get it, do you, Mary?"

	Br Jumbo was taken aback by the hostility in blonde Mary's tone.
	"Mary is right" he said, ambiguously, "we proceed with the multiplication by logarithms exercise. Turn to page 46 in your books."
	Short Mary sensed that for some reason she was unpopular with the rest of the class, including those with no interest in natural logarithms. Br Jumbo talking on was much more enjoyable than doing multiplications and divisions by logs. There were more for prep. It was a tedious exercise. Even Albert, who could munch through maths problems like a machine, was bored with it.

	The next day, at lunchtime, all the children came to the woodwork shed to admire Adam and Albert's new bows.
	"We can get a range of about 400 feet ", Albert said, "but that's by shooting at 45 degrees. You can't get any accuracy that way. I'd say a hundred feet is reasonable."
	James gave it a try, and immediately shot an arrow into the centre of the target.
	"Cool".
	"You could kill someone with that" said Abagail.
	"Not allowed to" said Adam, "Br Peter made us promise never to point an arrow at another child, even as a joke. Abbey, you have a go."
	Abagail strained at the arrow.
	"The draw strength is too high for her" said Albert.
	She struggled and shot off an arrow, but it flew wide of the mark.
	"We'll measure you up" said Albert, "Cecilia?"
	Cecilia was better, missing the target but not by a long way.
	"See how far it goes" said Albert.
	"I'm not Diana the huntress" said blonde Mary, "archery isn't for a girl like me."
	Mandy also shook her head, following blonde Mary.
	"Mary?" asked Adam, offering the bow to short Mary.
	"No."
	"You don't have to do everything that blonde Mary says" said Abagail, "you're pathetic sometimes, Mary."
	"Look, I don't want to do it" said short Mary, "is that not OK?"
	Blonde Mary smiled.
	Albert hurriedly gave the bow to Sebastian.
	"St Sebastian my namesake was shot with arrows" he said, "maybe I should be target instead of shooter". However he hit the target. Ibrahim tried last and missed.
	"Never mind" said Adam, "I can't get it either."
	"It comes with practice" said Albert, "and I think you might be a bit over-drawn."
	
Rupert meanwhile was checking out Mandy and blonde Mary. With the pretext of talking to Amy he was spending a lot of time in the girls' calefactory. He noticed that the two went up to the dorm together a lot, where of course he could not follow.
	"They'll keep their stash in the dorm, the idiots" he thought to himself. The question was what to do about it.
	The next morning, he absented himself from Sexte, and sneaked into the first year girls' dorm. He knew where the drugs would be, somewhere near the toilet. He found them easily enough.
	"If I just flush these away they'll get new supplies pretty soon" he thought, "and I can't exactly shop them to Fr Abbot. I wonder if Adam will do it for me. He's pretty militantly anti-drug. Shame I managed to fall out with him at the beginning of term."
	He checked all round the dorm. It was similar to a boys', only more neatly decorated. There was even a vase of flowers, provided by Matron. However it was dangerous to be there. If caught, people could conclude anything. So he left, and rejoined the school after the office, giving the excuse that he'd just gone to the next class by accident, don't know how I could have been so stupid, which Br Bernard accepted.

	"Adam" Rupert said.
	"What the hell is it?" said Adam, immediately cautious.
	"Your speech was good, you're a good debater" said Rupert.
	"Why thank you" said Adam.
	"I suppose you deserve to know whose responsible for the drug problem at St Tom's. Well it's your year. Mandy and blonde Mary. They keep the drugs in the cistern of the toilet in their dormitory. Do what you want with this information."
	"You're not telling me anything new, Rupert" said Adam, not entirely truthfully, "But why not shop them, if you feel so strongly about it?"
	"Fr Abbot would thank you for it" said Rupert, "think of the wrecked lives you could save."
	"I'll think about it" said Adam.
	"If you know about it, and say nothing, you are complicit" said Rupert.
	"You are complicit then" said Adam.
	"The difference" said Rupert, "is that I don't agree with you on the evils of cannabis. But I respect you for your position, Adam, I really do. Everyone respects you."
	However the taboo against sneaking was so strong that even Rupert could not break it down. Eventually he had to admit defeat. It was time for a more drastic plan.

	He waited until the evening, and went to the girl's calefactory to talk to Amy, as usual. This time, however, he brought a plastic bag containing some bottles, which were swaddled with more plastic so it wasn't obvious what they were. In fact they contained whiskey.
	"Malt, too" he thought to himself, "what a waste."
	When the news came on television, which bored blonde Mary, she and Mandy went up to the dorm, as they quite often did. Abagail, Cecilia and short Mary were still in the calefactory, short Mary looking very down in the dumps as Cecilia and Abagail chatted.
	Rupert took his chance, and went up the stairs to the first year dormitory. He deliberately stepped heavily on the staircase.
	"That was a man" said Mandy, sensitised to such things.
	"It's a bust," said blonde Mary, "I know it's a bust. Quick, into the toilet."
	The girls locked themselves in the toilet cubicle.
	Rupert entered the dormitory. His plan was working perfectly.
	There was a wooden chair, which he dragged under the door handle of the toilet, where it blocked the handle from going into the down position. The girls were trapped. The toilet flushed as they realised what was happening.
	Rupert then poured the whiskey all over the chair, and over the carpet. Then he threw on a match, and made his escape.

	The smoke alarm went off almost immediately, and there was general panic.
	Matron was in a meeting with Fr Abbot at the time, so two minutes were lost. She assumed of course that the alarm had been set off as a prank, so she was annoyed as she assembled the girls in the yard. The boys also had to be counted. It was bad time for a drill, because it wasn't possible to know where everyone was supposed to be.
	"Mary O Rourke and Mandy Campbell missing" said Matron, "does anyone know if they went to the beach?"
	Adam caught sight of Rupert's eye.
	"They're in the dorm" he said, to James.
	"How do you know?" said James.
	"I just know" said Adam.
	"No harm to check" said James, and the two boys scooted off before anyone could stop them.
	As they arrived, the window to the toilet in the first year girl's dorm was smashed. Glass tinkled to the floor. However it was too small to permit a girl to climb out of it.
	"You can't get out that way" shouted James, "get to the fire escape."
	Mandy screamed. 
	"They're trapped" said Adam.
	"Don't talk, come" said James, and leapt onto the fire escape. Adam followed him. James took his blazer off and smashed in the window leading to the dorm. Acrid smoke billowed out. James put the blazer over the broken shards of glass, and climbed in, landing on Abagails' bed, which fortunately was not yet ablaze. However the next bed was. They couldn't see for the smoke.
	James went in. Adam tried to follow, but was overcome by the fear of the smoke, and the only half protected glass.
	"James" he called.
	James was floundering. He could hardly see anything, and his lungs filled with smoke. However he knew the way to the toilet door. It was only a matter of a yard.
	"James, Adam, you idiots, come out at once". It was Br Dominic, racing for the fire escape. However he could hear Mandy's screams from the window. He realised at once that his long, flowing Benedictine habit would catch fire, so he had to use precious seconds stripping it off.
	 James saw that there was some kind of burning framework that appeared to be blocking the toilet. He kicked it away with his foot, the plastic sole of his shoe melting slightly as it hit the burning wood. Then he felt in the blinding smoke for the toilet door handle. He found it easily. It was painfully hot.
	"Is James in there?" Br Dominic was up the fire escape. He had to make an immediate decision.
	"Adam, hold my hand"
	He dived into the dormitory, with one hand held by Adam so he could get his way back.
	"James, take hold of my hand".
	By now Mandy and blonde Mary were out. The three males formed a human chain, and Mandy and then blonde Mary were passed out, first to James, then to Br Dominic, and were finally received by Adam and dragged to the safety of the fire escape. James was next out, coughing and spluttering, then Br Dominic. At that point a group of prefects and monks, with masks on and armed with fire extinguishers, broke through the door and started tackling the fire.
	"Are we all safe?" said Br Dominic, "Adam and James, that was so stupid. But the main thing is that everybody is out."
	"Sorry James" said Adam, "I saw the smoke and I ..."
	"Never mind" said James, generously, and the two boys were friends again.

All four were sent to the sick bay, but Adam was discharged within a few minutes. James was the worst affected, his lungs filled with smoke.
	"He'll never be quite the healthy boy he was before" said the doctor, who came to examine them later, "the lung can't recover from smoke inhalation".
	“Where does it hurt, James?” asked Adam.
	“All over my chest” said James, “it feels dry and sore, and every breath is rough, as thought he air had sand in it”.
	Adam laid hands on him.
	“You were brave, James”, he said, “you rescued others. Now may the Lord rescue you in your distress.”
	“Thanks, Adam” said James, “it feels better already.”

	After Mass the next morning Fr Abbot publicly thanked Br Dominic for saving four children. James didn't get a mention.
	"St Tom's prefers live cowards to dead heroes" said Sebastian, "everyone knows that it was you with some help from Adam who saved Mandy and blonde Mary."
	A huge bunch of flowers for James arrived from blonde Mary's mother, who of course had been told of the incident. There was also a box of very nice chocolates for Adam, so at least they got some recognition. Br Dominic accepted a bottle of finest malt whiskey, which he had to share with the other monks, because all things were held in common.
	Within a couple of days, James was out.

	The girls' dormitory was out of action. Girls were not allowed within the monastery proper. Therefore the boys were moved to a spare cell in the monastery, whilst the girls took over their dormitory, whilst their own was put back into a liveable condition. Fortunately the damage was contained largely to one room.
	The fire investigator was called, and was distinctly puzzled. He realised that Mandy and blonde Mary were not being straight with him when it came to an account of what had happened, and James seemed highly confused. He concluded that they had been playing with setting light to alcohol, and then for some reason locked themselves in the toilet, which was the report he gave to Fr Abbot. Since there were no fatalities or serious injuries, and damage was minor, the investigation didn't get the priority that in truth it deserved, and the investigator left dissatisfied.
	"I tried to tell him that the toilet was blocked by a chair" said James, "and he just said a chair wasn't heavy enough."
	"Well how did it block blonde Mary and Mandy in?" asked Adam, "Why didn't they just go to the fire escape?"
	"I don't know" said James, "I couldn't see."
	It was Albert who got the solution.
	"You put a chair under the handle, and it blocks the handle going down. Result, someone trapped in the toilet."
	"You mean?" said James.
	"Then the chair burns away, and no-one realises what you have done." Albert continued.
 	"So it was done deliberately?" said James.
	"That's about the size of it. But since you kicked the chair away, and you couldn't see it clearly anyway through all the smoke, who's to prove it?" Albert concluded.
	Adam went away with a sickening feeling in his stomach.

	"Rupert is so evil, he's a potential murderer" he said to Abagail.
	"You hypocrite, Adam" was Abagail's only response.

	"Get that gas cylinder out of the dorm" Adam told Albert, "who knows what might happen if Rupert tries it again?"
	"Good point" said Albert, "but how do you know it was Rupert?"
	"I just know" said Adam.
	"How do you 'just know'?"
	"From the way he's been behaving" Adam said, "he tried to get me shop Mandy and blonde Mary to Fr Abbot. All in all he's taking too much interest in them. Then I caught his eye as we all stood in line for the register during the fire. Guilty as hell."
	"You might be right" said Albert, "but that won't stand up."
	"I know," said Adam.

	Adam had already told Abagail about their stash of wine. Albert removed the gas cylinder and James' knife, but left the bottles. There was nowhere much in the monk's cell to conceal things. It was spartan in the extreme. Five beds were pulled in where there had been only one, and the desk taken out to make room. However as compensation they were allowed the use of another cell adjacent to it, where they put their personal belongings. Albert hid their contraband in a big tin which he put to the back of a chest of drawers. It wasn't ideal but it was reasonably secure.
	"They won't know whether it is ours or theirs" he said.
The washing facilities were down the corridor. The monks' shower, Adam noted, was quite a bit warmer than the one they had been using. Monks had some privileges.
	The worst was they had to get up earlier, for Prime. If you had a cell in the monastery, you said Prime, no exception was made for them. It was tiring, and they found themselves going to bed immediately after Compline. There was no reporting to Br Dominic.
	"We're monks now" said Adam.
	"I couldn't live like this" said James, "not week in, week out, for all my life. I need my bedroom with its warm duvet, and the model aeroplanes hanging from the ceiling, and a glass of milk when I want it."
	"Homesick?" asked Adam.
	"Kind of" admitted James.
	"You've left it a bit late, haven't you? Not long to go now." said Adam.
	Another nice thing about the monastery proper was the library. This wasn't a room. Books were lined along the corridor to the chapel. There was a section titled "useful arts" which included volumes on beekeeping. Then there were lives of saints, theology, moral philosophy, history sacred and profane, books in Hebrew and books in Latin, a book, on its own desk and secured by a chain, which was handwritten in some indecipherable script.
	"Who would have thought that there could be so many books, on subjects so abstruse?" thought Adam. With the exception of the handwritten book, you could just take them back to the cell. Adam found a tome on St Teresa of Avila, and read it through. Sebastian tried a biography of GK Chesterton. James took down a thick volume of "The theology of love" and amused the others by reading bits out. Nothing was forbidden to them, and they could spend as long as they wanted there, talking in almost complete privacy. No other pupils came in, though occasionally they saw a wandering monk, deep in his dusty books, browsing the titles for the piece of information wanted.
	"I would take forever to read through this lot" said Adam.
	Albert had found a book on brewing beer.
	"I wonder" he said, "could we set up a secret brewery?"
	"It's something to think about" said Adam, "Our wine has gone to the ladies."

Adam had told Abagail about the secret compartment under the carpet, and the stash of wine, long before the fire. Pretty much the first thing the girls did on settling in was to roll the carpet back and uncover it.
	"The rotters" said Cecilia, "they had all this lot, and they never shared. There are tons of bottles in here. Where did they get them from?"
	"Smuggled out of the kitchen" said Abagail. "You're right, Cecilia. Let's have a party."
	Abagail set an alarm for two O'Clock in the morning, and placed the watch under her pillow. She wondered whether or not to wake short Mary, but in the end decided to include her. All girls were swiftly awake, a torch was lit, and they sat on the floor of the dorm in nightdresses and pajamas.
	"I've still got some dope" said Cecilia, "but only enough for one joint."
	"Not in the dorm" said blonde Mary, "too risky."
	"I'm getting a new stash tomorrow" said Mandy.
	"We can do without dope" said Abagail, "wine should be enough." She unscrewed the bottle.
"Here's to our hero, James."
	"To James" said the girls, and clinked toothbrush beakers.
	"This is nice" said blonde Mary, "is it communion wine?"
	"No" said Abagail, "it was meant for our parents."
	"My Mum used to drink it mixed with Coca-Cola" said Mandy, "said it made in drinkable."
	"I've never heard of that." said Cecilia.
	"It's what you do with three pound plonk" said short Mary, "the winos do it because even they can't drink it straight."
	Mandy winced.
	"Have more" said Cecilia, and poured large measures, opening another bottle when the first ran out.
	"You know, Cecilia, I like you so much" said Mandy.
	"Funny way of showing it" said short Mary.
	"Oh, that was all ages ago" said Cecilia, "I thought we were friends now. Mary, stop stirring things."
	"No one has liked me so much as when I came here." said Mandy.
	"You've really found your feet" said Abagail.
	"We love you, don't we Mandy?" said blonde Mary.
	"James obviously thinks you're worth saving" said Abagail, "and Mary too."
	"And Adam" said Cecilia, "he was in there as well."
	"Adam sneaked on me to Fr Abbot" said short Mary.
	"No he did not" said Abagail, "you brought that on yourself."
	"Everyone was smoking, but only I got caught. It must have been a sneak." said short Mary.
	"So why would Adam do that, I wonder?" said blonde Mary, "why sneak on you out of all the other girls?"
	"Because" said short Mary.
	"Because you're a stuck up and priggish cow" said Mandy.
	"Mandy!" said Abagail, "besides, he didn't."
	"How do you know he didn't?" asked Mandy.
 	"My brother doesn't do things like that." said Abagail,
	"The fact is" said short Mary, "someone got me into trouble. And if it wasn't Adam, who was it?"
	"It was all of us" said blonde Mary, "all of us girls, anyway. We're fed up of you, and we thought it was time to teach you a lesson. The boys think that too."
	"I was wondering whether to wake you or leave you out" said Abagail, "and I decided to wake you, Mary. I made a mistake. You just spoil things, and you're spoiling things now."
	Tears began to sting at short Mary's eyes.
	"Cry-baby" said Abagail.
	"Just like Adam." said short Mary.
	Furiously Abagail punched her and slapped her two or three times round the face. Mandy and blonde Mary smiled.
	"Your turn now, if you want to" said blonde Mary to Mandy.
	Mandy raised her hand, and short Mary cowered back in fear. Tears of physical hurt and humiliation streaked her face.
	"Oh my God" said Cecilia, "Mandy, you can't hit people and get away with it. You just can't."
	"Then make that bitch apologise for everything she has done over the last ten weeks" said Mandy.
	"Let's have more wine and think it over" said blonde Mary, "this is turning into a swell party."
	Cecilia refilled all the glasses, including short Mary's.
	"Class is a real grief because of you" she said to short Mary, "Mary is embarrassed because you show her up about her mother, or about not being good at maths. Mandy you are always picking on. Every joke of Abagail's you manage to spoil. Then the boys. Haven't you picked up that Adam, Albert and James are actually interested in the subjects? But every time they manage to get something interesting going you come along and derail it?"
	"Who are you to judge?" said short Mary.
	"It's not just what Cecilia thinks. It's what we all think." said Abagail. "Now you just cry if you want and you keep on crying. And we'll let you cry until you cry yourself out. There's no Mummy here to protect you. No one cares anything about your parents, in case you haven't noticed." 
	"Just drink more, and stop caring about yourself so much" said Cecilia. "Swallow that."
	Short Mary obeyed.
	"Now drink this" and she poured short Mary another glass.
	"I feel sick" said short Mary, and made for the toilet. Indeed, she had drunk too much, and violently vomited.
	"Peace" said Cecilia, "just finish this bottle off, and we'll all go back to bed."
	So that's what they did.
Chapter 13. Busted 

	"Some of you boys have been asking about natural logarithms?" said Br Kieran, "in which case I can advance an exercise we first intended to hold in summer. It's a real fun exercise, with a trip out."
	The class was all agog.
	"The question is, what is better, broadleaf forest or introduced conifers."
	"Broadleaf" said Cecilia.
	"You say that instantly" said Br Kieran, "so give us the spiel."
	"Broadleaf forest is the native woodland type to the British Isles, and supports a greater variety of animal and insect life than non-native conifers, which are planted for their commercial timber value."
	"So what do we do in science?" said Br Kieran, "test hypotheses. And you've got a hypothesis there. So instead of just reading about it, we're going to test it. Now how would we do that?"
	"Go to the wood and count the insects" said Adam.
	"Exactly" said Br Kieran, "and that's what we're going to do. We'll set down insect traps in the broadleafed forest and in the conifer plantation, and see whether we catch a greater variety of insects. Now suppose the results come back like this." he wrote on the whiteboard.

				Broadleaf			Conifer
Greenfly			80				190			
Bluebottles			50				3
Moths				40				1
Butterflies			30				1
Ladybirds			0				1
Ground beetles		0				1
Spiders			0				1
Midges			0				1
Little flies			0				1

"Which of those is more diverse?"
	"The conifer" said Cecilia, "because it's got more species in it."
	"The broadleaf" said Abagail, "because it's more balanced."
	"That doesn't matter" said Cecilia.
	"Does", said Abagail, "can't you see that your conifer forest effectively supports only greenfly?"
	"It's got a ladybird. Yours doesn't have any ladybirds at all." said Cecilia.
	"Well personally I prefer butterflies" said Abagail, "and you've only got one as opposed to thirty."
	"Maybe they're the same?" said blonde Mary.
	"We need a metric" said Albert.
	"Exactly" said Br Kieran, "we need a metric. And what we are going to use is the Shannon biodiversity index. The idea is to balance richness with number of species. And the way we do it is this." He wrote a big number like a capital E on the board. "Anyone know what that symbol means?"
	No-one did.
	"It means sum. And what do is we first divide through each count by the total number of insects, to get a number in the range 0 to 1. Call that p for each species. Then we multiply by the natural logarithm of p. All the numbers are in the range 0 to 1, so the logarithms are negative. But we invert the sign. The logarithm of one is zero, so if you have only one species in your set, the Shannon index is zero. The logarithm of zero is minus infinity, so if you have a huge number of species the logarithms go very high. However this is corrected because the number of observations, p, is very small. So the index balances evenness with numbers of species."
	"So all we need is to calculate the Shannon index for the two examples shown, and we will see whether Cecilia or Abbey is right."
	James was right to it with his calculator.
	"1.39 versus 0.266" he said, "so Abbey was right."
	There was a bit of a cheer.
	"So, we're going to do this in late autumn, instead of summer, and there'll be fewer insects about. And in fact it is interesting for me as well, because I already know what the answer is for summer. We go to the forest, and split into two groups, one for the conifers and one from the broadleaf wood. Then we set down insect traps, leave them for as long as possible, and come back and collect them at dusk. The we take the insects back to the lab, assign them to species, which is the hard part, and calculate the Shannon index for the two types. Sound good?"
	Everyone agree that it was a good idea.
	"We'll have two prefects to help. During the spare time between setting the traps and collecting them they'll take you on a nature trail round the forest."

	"This is our chance" said Adam to Abagail, "we can go into the forest, and hunt a deer. We've just got to think of a way of losing those prefects."
	"What will you catch the deer with?" asked Abagail.
	"The bows, silly, why did you think we made them?" said Adam.
	"Duh" said Abagail, "then blonde Mary, short Mary and Mandy are ruled out. Good riddance, I would say."
	"Oh, no" said Adam, "I want everyone cut in on this."
	"You don't know how bad things are" said Abagail, "honestly, Cecilia is the only one I'd trust an inch."
	"Because of the drugs?" said Adam.
	"Yes Adam, partly because of the drugs. But not only that. It's just silly. Put five girls with totally incompatible personalities into a dorm together and is it any surprise that they fight. Short Mary is getting on my nerves with her spitefulness, and blonde Mary and Mandy ..."
	"I know," said Adam, "sell drugs. Which is why Rupert tried to burn them to death. And he'd burn you to death, as well, if you crossed him. Abbey, I don't want you mixed up in this."
	"Well I'm not sure about that" said Abagail, "Adam, we've had this discussion so many times. And I've had to defend you. Short Mary thought you went to Fr Abbot about her."
	"Surely she realises it was Br Bernard who caught her?" said Adam.
	"She just doesn't see sense." said Abagail, "As I said, it's dire in our dorm."
	"Mandy gets the drugs from a boat that calls in at the old jetty, doesn't she?" said Adam.
	"I'm not sure about that" said Abagail, "she seemed to know when she would get some, though?"
	"When?" asked Adam.
	"Tomorrow" said Abagail, "at least she said that yesterday, if three O'Clock in the morning is yesterday. So I guess she means today."
	"Look" said Adam, "I might have to go to Fr Abbot about this. But I will not sneak. I will tell everybody what I am doing, and why."
	"Everyone will hate you, Adam" said Abagail.
	"No" said Adam, "you won't, and Albert won't. Sebastian won't if he personally isn't shopped. Cecilia doesn't hate anyone. No-one whose opinion matters will hate me, only the idiots. But I'm not decided what to do yet. Incidentally, did you like the wine?"
	"Oh yes," said Abagail, "most revealing."
	"OK, so it's agreed. Deer hunt during our trip to count insects. If it's OK to trap a midge then it's OK to trap a deer. They're all biodiversity. And everyone in." said Adam.
	"If they're not expelled by the time you're finished" said Abagail.

Adam spent the evening watching the sea for lights. He knew the smuggler's vessel the instant he saw it. He ran to get Albert.
	"Mandy's boat is coming with a supply of drugs" he said, "we've got to intercept it."
	"Intercept a drug smuggler?" said Albert.
	"No, you dope" said Adam, "intercept Mandy, when she comes back with the drugs. Then we can get rid of them."
	"She's vicious, you know" said Albert, "remember what she did to Cecilia."
	"That's why I need you. There are two of us."
	"Why not hold her up with the bows?" asked Albert.
	"A promise is a promise" said Adam, "but I agree, we need overwhelming force." He went to the utility cell, opened the tin in the chest of drawers, and took out James' knife. He hid it in the sleeve of his blazer. "That should do."
	Albert nodded.
	The two boys grabbed torches and ran off.
	"Careful with the torches" said Adam, "they can see them from the sea. Always point the light towards land. And make sure we don't bump into Mandy."
	They made their way to the place where Adam had previously seen Mandy make rendezvous
with the boat, and waited. They didn't have long to wait before the boat started flashing.
	"That's the signal to Mandy" said Adam.
	"Are you sure this is safe?" asked Albert, in a whisper, although there was no chance of him being overheard.
	"As safe as can be" said Adam, "if we see any smugglers with Mandy, we just stay hidden. But there won't be."

	Mandy flashed her torch to give the signal, and the boat flashed back. She went along the old jetty, and waited for it to draw in. Chris, Lionel, and Mike were there.
	Chris hugged her. "Good to see you, Mandy" he said, "How are you doing?"
	"Fine"	said Mandy.
	"Your mother is happy" said Chris, "I keep sending her supplies. I've got another letter out for you. You're doing her proud. Anyway, I need three hundred pounds."
	"I've only got two hundred" said Mandy.
	Chris's eyes narrowed, "And why?"
	"There was a fire at the boarding house, and the stash got burned" Mandy half lied.
	"I'll handle this" said Mike.
	"The drugs were burnt in the fire" said Mandy, "it was real. You can read about it on the Internet. So I can only take 200 worth this time. That's alright, isn't it?"
	"We need to keep the business going" said Mike, "I appreciate that sometimes accidents happen and stock has to be sacrificed. So what we'll do, Mandy, is we'll take the two hundred, and lend you a hundred pounds. But I don't want to hear of this again. If you mess up again, Mandy, I'll get Lionel to give you a good beating."
	Mandy looked at Lionel, and shuddered.
	 "But that won't happen, because you're a good girl" said Mike, "Now onto nicer subjects. We've got a new line." He drew a wrap from his pocket, and unwrapped it slightly, to reveal a white powder. "That is cocaine. All the best, most successful people are on it. Except present company, of course. Don't take this yourself, Mandy. The nice thing about it is that it costs ten pounds a wrap, like cannabis, but a wrap is only one line. So it's a rich kid's habit."
	"OK, that's all wrapped up" said Chris, "love you and leave you, and take care."
	They hugged, and the boat cast away.

Adam saw with satisfaction the big light and the tiny light parting at approximately equal speeds. It meant that Mandy was on her own. They moved to nearer the path, and Adam and Albert waited, crouched behind a gorse bush. They saw the tinkling light of Mandy's torch.
	"Now" said Adam, and they jumped her. 
	"Leave me alone" said Mandy, startled.
	Albert grabbed her from the front, whilst Adam grabbed her from behind. He took James' knife out and pressed it to her skin.
	"If you fight back I will rip your throat out, and I mean that Mandy" he said.
	Mandy knew that the game was up.
	"Take her coat off and search it" said Adam.
	Albert rummaged through Mandy's coat in torchlight, and soon located a plastic bag full of foil wraps.
	"So what are these, Miss Campbell?" demanded Adam.
	Mandy turned white.
	"Chuck them into the sea" ordered Adam, and Albert complied, scattering the foil wraps over a high rock that overlooked the dark and swelling ocean. The drugs disappeared, irretrievable.
	"Adam, I", they could let Mandy go now, "they weren't mine, they were borrowed. They will kill me for this."
	"That's already nearly happened once" said Adam, "Who do you think set fire to your room? You'd have died in that fire if James didn't have more courage than I'll ever have."
	Mandy began to cry, pouring her heart out, and all her troubles since her father walked out on her mother when she was a baby.
	"Mandy" said Adam, "this is your responsibility. I've got to go to Fr Abbot. Do you understand that? This is too serious for considerations of sneaking to apply."
	Compline was already taking place when they returned to the monastery.
	"OK, go to Fr Abbot" said Mandy, "let me go to the dorm, to cry some more."
	"I think we've got to do it" said Adam to Albert.
	"I don't know" said Albert, "It seems a big thing."
	"Too big for us to deal with" said Adam.
	They had decided to go to Fr Abbot, when they saw Cecilia outside his door.
	"I was waiting for you" she said. "look I agree that you've got to go to Fr Abbot about Mandy. But the users are the real culprits, not her. Isn't that what you said, Adam?"
	Adam had to admit that this was true.
	"So all three of us have to go in. But let me handle it, Adam." said Cecilia.

	They knocked on the door. Fr Abbot beamed to see them.
	"What can I do for you?" he said.
	"Well, Fr Abbot" said Cecilia, "all of us have been taking drugs. All except Adam, that is."
	"Sit down, please" said Fr Abbot, "we need a long talk. Whiskey, anybody?"
	"Adam discovered who was bringing the drugs into the school, which was a first year, and wondered whether he was obliged to give you the name. But he felt that would be unfair, because everyone is taking the drugs and so equally guilty, and it is wrong to single this person out. So we agreed that we three would come and see you together" Cecilia said.
	"Children" he said, "we thought that by establishing the school on an island we could establish a sort of separation between it and the wickedness of the world outside. That was completely naive. Almost every boarding school has some sort of drugs problem, and St Tom's is no exception. If there was an easy answer someone would have found it. You can't even keep drugs out of high security prisons, let alone out of schools. I'm sorry, but that's the best I can do."
	"We don't need money for anything except a few sweets and stationery" said Adam, "if you took money away you wouldn't have any drugs."
	"That's a very pertinent point, Adam" said Fr Abbot, "money is truly at the root of all evil. But you need to think, with that sort of regime, what would that do for independence? Particularly I am thinking of older years. Should parents have to buy train tickets home and post them to the school office?"
	"If you get one joint amongst five that's only two pounds each" said Cecilia, "that's about the same as a quarter of sweets. You'd have to keep people very poor for them not to afford that sort of money. But I do want to see an end to drugs at St Tom's. I didn't at first, but now I agree with Adam."
	"Everyone seeks God in his own way" said Fr Abbot, "And I'm not here to give you easy answers. But certainly if you feel that drugs are a blind alley, and I'd be inclined to agree with you, you must not be bullied or pressurised into taking them. However we don't give you a choice about your company. That option, of separating yourself from the problem, is taken away."
	"So you don't care that some people are selling drugs?" said Cecilia.
	"I said we don't give you the option of separating yourself from them" said Fr Abbot, "which normally you will have in adult life. You have to fight it out amongst yourselves, whether the year is to go down a drug path or another path. But if you are convinced that you are right, then truth will always win in the end."
	"So we don't have to give you any names" said Cecilia.
	"I don't know" said Fr Abbot, "but I can easily guess. And the decision was taken earlier on, much earlier on in fact, that this person has already experienced enough disruption in her life, and therefore not to expel this person. I'd rather not be embarrassed by having her crimes brought to my attention."
	"She herself is in danger" said Adam, "she told me that her suppliers would kill her."
	"Whatever for?" asked Fr Abbot.
	"Because Albert and I grabbed her stash of drugs and threw them into the sea." said Adam.
	"Good for you" said Fr Abbot, "Tell her that if she feels any danger, my door is always open. But ultimately she's got to take responsibility for her own life. And drug traffickers aren't always nice people. Shout too, Adam, if anyone threatens you. You have every right to protect yourself." 
	The children smiled, and sipped their whiskeys.
	 "What you've got to remember is that drug dealing is a rational crime, and rational people do not commit murder or serious assaults unless they know they can get away with it. And it is difficult to commit an undetectable murder. So don't make it easy for them." said Fr Abbot.
	"It's so hard not to join in, that's the problem" said Cecilia, "Cannabis doesn't do anything for me personally. I just want to be one of the crowd."
	"Which is maybe why you are popular, Cecilia" said Fr Abbot.
	"But surely what she is doing is wrong" said Adam.
	"Thanks, Adam" said Cecilia.
	"I took it, but it wasn't me" said Albert, "Adam was right. I was trying to be someone that I'm not. But I'm not so sure it's wrong for you."
	"So you're saying that my true vocation in life is as a pot-head" said Cecilia.
	Adam laughed.
	"Albert and I are never going to be cool. You and Abbey are, maybe. But I don't want Abbey mixed up with drugs, and if you didn't take them she wouldn't either" he said.
	"But then Fr Abbot said I wouldn't be as popular" said Cecilia, "but I see what you're getting at. It's not everything, and I'm not the only person affected by my own use. Which was what you've been trying to say all along, Adam."
	Fr Abbot smiled. He allowed them to talk until way into the night, long past official bedtimes.
	"So he'd already decided not to expel Mandy" said Albert. "Seems unfair. Whatever she does, she can get away with."
	"Then don't anyone tell her" said Cecilia, "Fr Abbot's right. I was here to stop her being expelled myself."
	"Why?" said Adam.
	"Because" said Cecilia, "just because."
	"You just love that girl, don't you?" said Adam.
	The three grinned at each other, and parted to go off into the blackest night.

The other girls, meanwhile, hadn't got any sleep, waiting anxiously for Cecilia to return.
	"I'll be expelled" said Mandy, fretfully.
	"I don't care if I am" said blonde Mary, "there are better schools to go to than St Tom's".
	"Well not everyone is situated like you" said Abagail, "Anyone knows what is going to happen to us."
	"My mother will kill me" said short Mary.
	"You're safe" said Mandy, "you've already been found out. What about me?"
	"Yes, Mary" said Abagail, "you should have thought about that before letting Mandy take the risk."
	"Well it's your brother who got us into this" said blonde Mary.
	"Look, I tried to make him see sense, but he just wouldn't listen. I don't control his actions just because he's my twin" said Abagail, "We've just got to wait for Cecilia. No point blaming each other."
	"It was you who started this drugs nonsense" said short Mary, "I wish I'd never heard of them."
	They waited in silence for a while, then went back to fretting.
	"What exactly did Fr Abbot say to you?" said Abagail to short Mary.
	"I've told you," said short Mary, "That to successfully conceal drug usage it is necessary to smoke moderate amounts, outside, and after lights out. Take a punishment run, Miss Walker please. It was all over in about two minutes."
	"That was it?" asked Abagail.
	"That was it" said short Mary.
	"Then maybe we'll just get the same" said Abagail.
	"He'll be stricter next time" said Mandy.
	"I can't understand it" said blonde Mary, "I think he just wants to leave us in suspense. Why does Adam have to be such an idiot?"

	Eventually Cecilia returned to the dorm, long after lights out.
	"Well?" said Abagail.
	"Talked him out of it" said Cecilia.
	"What about me and Mary?" asked Mandy.
	"Your name wasn't mentioned, Mandy." said Cecilia.
	"But Adam said he'd shop me to Fr Abbot" said Mandy.
	"Adam was thinking in a hurry" said Cecilia, "your name was never mentioned. We told him that everyone in first year was smoking drugs, with the exception of Adam. We agreed that everyone was equally guilty - which is what Adam said in his speech - and it wasn't necessary to name names."
	"So what's he going to do?" asked Mandy.
	"I don't know" said Cecilia, "he was very nice, not shocked at all."
	"So what did Adam say?" asked blonde Mary.
	"Adam let Albert and me do most of the talking" said Cecilia, "I told him to do that before we went in."
	"He'll still find out" said Mandy, "then I'll be expelled."
	"No, I wouldn't worry about being expelled, Mandy" said Cecilia, "Fr Abbot is going to keep you here until."
	"Until what?"
	Cecilia thought. "Until you learn to accept unconditional love, Mandy.  He'll keep you here until that happens."
	"No-one loves me" said Mandy, "I look out for myself."
	"I wouldn't be so sure of that, Mandy" said Cecilia.
	"Oh yes, Cecilia" said Mandy, "I've heard it all before."
	
Adam and Albert returned to meet a hostile reception from the other three.
	"So, what?" said James.
	"Whiskey with the boss" said Adam.
	"Who gave you the right to sneak on Mandy?" asked James, "And what about us. Do you think we're safe as well?"
	"Albert and I intercepted Mandy with a carrier-bag full of drugs" said Adam, "so there was no choice. Look, James, she and blonde Mary were really careless. I said, in public, that I was anti-drug, but even I found out in a few days who was doing the dealing. And for the record, I didn't give Mandy's name to Fr Abbot. He already knew."
	"How do we know that?" said James.
	"Use a bit of common sense" said Adam, "Short Mary goes into Compline as high as a kite, and Br Bernard bawls her out. So he knows that drugs are amongst the first years. And he knows it won't be short Mary spreading them. So you think he won't try to find out where the drugs are coming from? As I said, Mandy and blonde Mary are careless.  Their vocation in life is not as drug dealers."
	"Now you're sounding like Fr Abbot" said James.
	"I've just spent about two hours chatting with him, and drinking his whiskey. Maybe he's infectious."
	"Cecilia and me were in there too" said Albert.
	"This sounds like a stitch up" said James.
	"It was getting out of hand" said Albert.
	"Now it's in the open" said Adam, "I don't know what he will do, but he can't exactly expel a whole year. Everyone is in the same boat now"
	"Except you"
	"Except me. It had to happen, James, it couldn't go on forever as it was going" said Adam.
	"No-one will ever trust you again" said James.
	"Mandy will. Cecilia stopped Fr Abbot from expelling her." said Adam.
	"That was Cecilia, not you"
	"Cecilia would never have gone in to talk to him without me" said Adam, "It's in Mandy's best interests what we've done. This way, she gets to stay on."
	"You do have a point, Adam" said Sebastian, "but wouldn't it have been easier just to tell Mandy the game was up, and to shop herself, rather than running with tales to Fr Abbot?"
	"She won't do that" said Adam.
	"Not a classy enough lady. Not yet, anyway" said Sebastian, "never mind. Adam, you've sneaked on her and you've sneaked on us. We can't allow that.”
	“I did not sneak” said Adam. 
	“Then what is sneaking?” said James, “Tomorrow, Adam, in the ruins.”
	“Tomorrow” said Adam, turning white.
	It was well past lights out, but neither of them got much sleep that night.

	"Fifteen, all right Rupert" said Jade, the next day.
 	Rupert was triumphant. His customers were returning, and he even had the hope of new ones, amongst the first years.
Chapter 14. Another fight, and a plan

	The next evening, before Compline, the first years assembled in the ruins. James had chosen Sebastian as his second, whilst Adam had Albert. The others formed a semicircle around the combatants. It was dark, and everyone had brought torches, lighting up the scene like a stage, and shedding an eerie light over the crumbling tombstones. 
	James pulled off his blazer, and gave it to Sebastian.
	“Adam”, he said, “you are accused of sneaking on Mandy and all of us, to father Abbot”.
	“I never did” protested Adam.
	“Well that's what this fight is going to decide” said Sebastian.
	Adam was shaking so much he could hardly remove his blazer. Eventually Albert took it off for him. The two boys sized each other up.
	“Adam never sneaked on Mandy” said Cecilia, “look, Mandy is still here.”
	“He said himself that he did” said James, “went to Father Abbot to say Mandy was dealing drugs. Can't think of a clearer case of sneaking.”
	“I was there,” said Cecilia, “and you weren't. Adam never did sneak on Mandy, honestly.”
	“I call on the Lord our God to give victory to His own” said Sebastian.
	“Too right” said short Mary, “get on with it.”
	“Come on Adam, afraid?” taunted James, “You're shaking like a spastic.”
	“You can thump him, Adam” said Abagail.
	James closed in on Adam, and slapped his face. There was a cheer.
	“Now the sneak's getting what he deserves” said blonde Mary.
	Smarting from the blow, Adam realised he was committed to the fight. He lunged at James. James stepped aside, and punched him. Adam felt the taste of blood in his cheek. He grabbed at James tie, and the pushed him in a crude judo throw. To his surprise, James went over, tripping over a jagged piece of wall, and landing heavily on the grass beyond it.
	“Kick him, Adam” said Abagail.
	Adam looked at the prone figure before him in the torchlight, but was somehow paralyed into inaction. James regained his feet.
	“I can get you back for that Adam.” he said, squaring up for another attack.
	“Look what does this prove?” said Cecilia, “that James and Sebastian are bigger than Adam and Albert? Any idiot can see that.”
	“Adam should have thought of that, before sneaking” said James.
	“And if you cared for Mandy you'd never have bought drugs off her.” said Cecilia, “We can all go to other schools if we're expelled, she can't. It's back in the council care home for her if she's found out. So don't pretend to care for Mandy. You're just a big bully, James.”
	“And Adam could have stamped you in the face, if he'd wanted to” said Abagail.
	“Why didn't he then?” said blonde Mary.
	“Maybe because he's not a vicious thug” said Cecilia, “I don't know why he ever agreed to this fight in the first place. Drop it.”
	“Mandy?” asked Sebastian. 
	 Mandy looked shy and frightened.
	“Do you still accuse Adam of sneaking on you?” asked Sebastian.
	“I don't know” said Mandy, “I wish I'd never started all this.”
	“It's not just Mandy he sneaked on” said blonde Mary, “Adam has sneaked on all of us.”
	“If Mandy's not sure then the fight's over”, said Sebastian, ignoring her. “Shake hands, gentlemen.”
	“Shake hands with a sneak?” said James.
	“You've got Albert and Abbey and Cecilia and now even Mandy against you” said Sebastian, “I'd call that an even split. Time to call it quits, James. Adam's got a right to oppose drugs if he wants to. I'm not saying I agree with him. But he's a right to his opinion. Shake hands.”
	Reluctantly James agreed. The two boys shook hands, stiffly, and the meeting broke up. Adam and James had just washed off the evidence when it was time for Compline.

	“That was disappointing” said blonde Mary, to Mandy, later that evening, “I was looking forward to my first real fight. I wanted James to win, of course, but when Adam threw him over, wasn't it so exciting? To see the underdog winning. Trust Cecilia to step in and stop it just when it started getting interesting.”
	“Fights aren't so interesting” said Mandy, “once you've seen a  few. But what are we to do, Mary? Sneaking or no sneaking, it's obvious that Father Abbot knows about us. And I owe Mike three hundred pounds for the drugs Adam and Albert threw into the sea.”
	“I'm not sure he does know” said blonde Mary. “He knows we're using, sure, Adam told him that. But then if he has any sense at all he'd know that already, everybody does. It's the dealers they're after. So we've got to sit tight, and make them think it came from Jade and Olivia.”
	“Then what happens to Jade and Olivia?” asked Mandy.
	“It's their rap” said blonde Mary, “they should have thought of that before they started pushing. We won't shop them, of course, but lead Father Abbot to the conclusion that they are the source.”
	“But if we don't sell, how can I make the money to pay Mike?” asked Mandy.
	“He'll get it back eventually” said blonde Mary, “sometimes in this life you've just got to give people bad news. It's not as if he can go to the police”. 

	“We've got the face it, we've got a split” said Sebastian, in the dorm that night, “Adam will never agree to the use of cannabis, James will never agree to stop using it. It's irreconcilable. We've tried arguing, we've tried a vote in the JC, we've tried a fight. Still no solution.”
	“No-one's forcing Adam to smoke if he doesn't want to” said James, “but why is he trying to impose his view on the rest of us? I've got a right to smoke if I want to.”
	“No you don't” said Adam.
	“Shut up, Adam” said James, “we've had enough of your stupid opinions. You can't stop me from doing what I want.”
	“Then light up a joint now” said Adam.
	“What, in this dorm, with all the monks crawling about?” said James.
	“Precisely” said Adam.
	“Adam's got a point” said Sebastian, “if a monk overheard you, you'd be out of this school, James. We can't smoke in this dorm, because it's in the monastery proper. So we smoke outside, and Adam and Albert don't have to know about it.”
	“And what when we come back high?” said James, “are you going to sneak us up, Adam?”
	“I don't sneak” said Adam, “but if you're going to turn yourself into a dopehead, everyone will know you're a dopehead. You've just got take that risk, James”.
	“It's a poor do when you can't even trust your own dorm-mates” said James.
	“Then don't smoke” said Adam.
	“Look Adam,” said James, “I can appreciate that you yourself will never touch dope. OK. But how does it affect you? How does it affect you, what we choose to do?”
	“You said it James” said Adam, “It's a poor do when you can't even trust your own dorm-mates.”
	“It's irreconcilable” said Sebastian, “you can't both have your own way. One has got to give.”
	“Well it won't be me” said James.
	“I won't be me” said Adam.

	That same night, Mike entered the great double doors of a luxurious mansion, set in five hundred acres of forest grounds. The butler greeted him, and ushered him in past a metal detector arch and two sets of security doors. All the woodwork was polished oak, and the rooms were decorated with marble statues of figures from Greek myth. Priceless original paintings hung upon the walls, together with Persian rugs painstakingly hand-knotted by child labour. There were also trophies of foxes and of deer, their stuffed heads mounted on wooden shields, and many antique weapons. Real log fires roared in the fireplaces.
	After the last set of security doors Mike reached the inner sanctum, the office of Mr Baines himself. The great man was seated on a  huge leather chair, smoking a cigar. A police superintendent, in full uniform, was sitting opposite, the two men in deep conference. Neither invited Mike to sit down. 
	Mike proffered a wad of notes. Mr Baines flicked through it, not bothering to count it accurately.
	“Is that all?” he asked, in a deep voice.
	“We're developing St Tom's, Sir”, said Mike, “I need a bit of time to get the market established. And we've got competition.”
	“Competition?”
	“There's another guy who was already supplying the older years. I've had to reduce prices to try to get him out.”
	“We'll see if we can't close him down”, said the big man. The superintendent nodded sagely. “Mike, don't give me this rubbish. I want full penetration of that school. We've got new supplies coming through from Pakistan, serious, quality cannabis resin. I want to raise prices on it. Don't let me down, Mike, no-one's making any money on five quid a twist.” He lit another cigar. “Make sure the kid understands that”, he said, “She's got to work for her money”.
	Mike drove away along the long darkened drive, trees shading his car from above. He was worried. The few pieces of cannabis Mandy was selling were nowhere near enough to satisfy Mr Baines. 

	Things were still very frosty with James, but there was no further violence. James and Sebastian couldn't get drugs easily from Mandy any longer, as she had run out of supplies. It was also very difficult if not impossible to smoke in the monastery proper. James and Sebastian reluctantly accepted the situation. Ibrahim, however, continued to get drugs from Jade and Olivia. Adam could tell he was still smoking. His eyes were dull, and he answered in the languid monotone of cannabis users that made Adam want to hit him.
	Cecilia was as good as her word and had made a private resolution never to touch the stuff again. Abagail, blonde Mary and Mandy got drugs from Jade and Olivia, but didn't dare to pass them onto the boys for fear of Adam. They also cut out short Mary.
	Short Mary initially consoled herself with the thought that she didn't really want to get involved in cannabis anyway. There was one little difficulty. Short Mary found herself craving something. She didn't know what it was, but it wasn't the sickly smell of cannabis. It kept her distracted all night and all day, an itch she couldn't scratch. Then, outside the boy's boarding house, she came across a still-smoking butt discarded by one of the third years, and she realised what it was. She was addicted to nicotine. She picked up the butt and raised it to her lips, and instantly felt relief.
	Cigarettes were just as much contraband as cannabis at St Tom's, of course, but at least they were not illegal. She could obtain them quite easily from the upper years. Which she did, only one or two a day, but it was a constant habit and a constant discipline. It also ate away at her pocket money. A box of twenty was over five pounds, and individual cigarettes cost 30p from the third years. Her father was a doctor, so of course she had been exposed to constant anti-smoking ads and propaganda.
	"I'm going to get lung cancer" she told herself, "I know I'll die of lung cancer."
It was a high price to pay for a few days of social weakness.
	Adam, Abagail, Cecilia, and Albert met up the next day to discuss plans for the hunt.
	“We need a way of getting the bows and arrows and other equipment into the forest, and a way of slipping the prefects when we get there.” said Adam.
	“That's impossible” said Cecilia.
	“No, it's easy” said Abagail, “There's a train station in the village near the forest. All we need is for someone to get permission to get off the island for some reason – a family wedding, or someone ill, something like that. They take the bows in their suitcase, buy a ticket to that small station, and hide them somewhere. We can pick them up days later, if need be.”
	“Short Mary's got a cello case” said Cecilia, “that'll hide a set of bows and arrows.” 
	The prefects were more difficult. Abagail wracked her brains in pursuit of a trick. She spoke to the second years and got the general idea. If the pattern followed that of the previous year, the class would be split into two groups, each under a prefect, to lay the traps, one in the broadleaf and one in the conifer forest. Br Kieran would remain with the minibus in case of any emergencies. The prefects would then take each group on a nature walk, and they would have lunch. This was meant to be a picnic held outside, but Abagail had it on certain intelligence that the prefects went to a country pub for a quick pint. Then late in the afternoon the groups would split again, go back to the insect traps, and collect the samples to take back to the school for analysis.
	"Somehow we just need to get those pesky prefects out of the way" thought Abagail, "but I don't know how to do it. Everything else is so perfect. It would be a shame for Adam and Albert to have wasted so much time in making the bows and arrows, all because of a little thing like that. Why can't Br Kieran just let us roam freely in the forest?"
	She thought about it all through Vespers, and at dinner, and at prep. Prep was religious education. The question read
	"Summarise the events leading up to Pharaoh's decision to allow the Israelites to leave Egypt. How historically accurate do you think the Bible's account is?"
	Abagail got out her Bible, and turned to the relevant chapter of Exodus. She read

	"5:1 Moses and Aaron then went to Pharaoh and said, 'This is what YHVH, God of the Hebrews, declares: 'Let My people leave, so they can sacrifice to Me in the desert.' ' 5:2 Pharaoh replied, 'Who is YHVH that I should obey Him and let Israel go? I do not recognize YHVH. Nor will I let Israel leave.' 5:3 'The God of the Hebrews has revealed Himself to us,' said [Moses and Aaron]. 'Please, allow us to take a three day journey into the desert, and let us sacrifice to YHVH our God. Otherwise, He may strike us down with the plague or the sword.' "

	Abagail thought, there was her answer.
	"Adam," she said, "what's the breviary for the day of the trip?"
	Adam was silent for a moment to dodge the patrolling prefect, then he looked up the office and passed it to Abagail.
	"Perfect" thought Abagail.

The children were excited as the trip to the forest approached.
	"This is a diagram of a coal-fired power station" said Br Kieran, "now what do you think of the location?"
	The diagram consisted of a river, a town, a wood and an airport. There was a soft grey ring about two miles wide around the site of the power station, labelled, "zone of maximum pollution from 200 yard chimney."
	"The zone of  pollution goes over the wood" said Abagail, "it will kill the wildlife."
	"Where would you rather it go?" asked Br Kieran.
	"Over the sea." said Abagail.
	"We're talking about mild smoke pollution" said Br Kieran, "not a blanket smog that will asphyxiate everything."
	"We could take samples from the polluted wood and the one outside the zone of pollution" said Adam, "And compute the Shannon indices".
	  "I see" said Br Kieran, "you're all pepped up about the trip. Very well, let's put this book about power stations away, and start talking about biodiversity. Who can give me an example of a diverse environment?"
	"The tropical rainforest" said everyone.
	"And a non-diverse environment?"
	That was a bit more difficult.
	"The polar icecaps?" suggested James.
	"Not bad" said Br Kieran, "and what do you find in the high north, in Scandinavia and Canada?"
	"Coniferous forests." said James.
	"Generally all of the same species" said Br Kieran, "you might have one or two species of pines. Huge stands of trees, all the same, stretching as far as they eye can see. Totally different from the tropical forest. And the interesting thing is that no-one really knows why this is. The temperate broadleaf woodland is intermediate. You don't have anything like the same number of species as in the tropical forest. And you do have large woods all of oak, for instance. But generally there is more diversity than in the colder forests."
	"So it's temperature" said Mandy, "the hotter it is, the more fertile the land."
	"But why would that lead to more species?" said Br Kieran, "Anyway, the coniferous forest you will be investigating is artificial. It was planted by humans deliberately all of one species, to provide uniform timber. The broadleaf forest is seeded naturally. So we can't use species counts of trees to conclude anything. But the forests are at approximately the same latitude, so any difference in insect count will not be due to temperature, directly."
	"Diversity breeds diversity" said Adam, "as the trees become more diverse, they offer more different kinds of homes for the insects. The as the insects become more diverse, the insects and birds that feed on them become more diverse. So the effect is runaway."
	"So how would you test that?" asked Br Kieran.
	Adam was stumped. However James, without putting up his hand, came to the rescue.
	"You said the broadleaf forest had areas of the same trees, and areas of different trees" he said , "so put some traps in areas where all the trees are the same, and some where they are different. Then you can separate out the effect from diversity from the effect of being a conifer."
	"Very good" said Br Kieran, "so now we're beginning to plan this."
	"Oh yes, we've planned the expedition, Sir" said Abagail.

Albert finally plucked up courage to ask the prefects to take him and his lobster pot out onto the high sea.
	"OK" grinned the prefects, and they were off.
	"Very nice lobster pot you have there, Albert. Fortunately the sea within 300 yards is ours, so we'll take you up to the limit and put the pot down. Wouldn't do to trespass on the local fishermen's territory."
	"The crabs just move as they want" said Albert.
	They put a few mussels in the pot as bait, then attached it to a long rope with a buoy on the top. The pot was lowered and the whole event took less than a few minutes.
	"Now for a bit of a sail" said one of the prefects, and made course round the island. 
`	Albert felt the spray ion his face, and the fresh sea air in his chest, somehow salted and different in quality to the air only a few feet on shore. He was gloriously happy. The boat neared an outcrop of rocks.
	"We can land on these rocks" said the prefect, "though it's some way up." He hosted Albert onto the lowest ledge, which was slippery with spray. There was an iron staple fixed into the rock. The prefect passed a rope through it.
	"Must be safe" he said, and tied the other end round Albert's waist.
	"Now all you need do Albert" said the other prefect, "is keep a watch on the buoy to see nobody nicks it, and wait."
	Albert gave a little cry, but they were off, the boat swiftly putting distance between them and the rocks.
	There was nothing for it but to wait. As the tide got up the spray got fiercer, and there seemed to be more of a wind. Albert tried to keep out of it, but eventually the battle was lost, and his shirt and trousers were sodden to saturation. Then real cold set it. The worst was the boredom. There was nothing to do except watch the seabirds as the soared and dived. Once one came out of the sea with a fish in its beak. However it was a monotonous few hours. 
	They didn't keep him there for longer than the afternoon. Before dusk, the boat reappeared, with the same two prefects as crew.
	"That was to get you back for stealing our boat" said the prefects, "now let's get the lobster pot up."
	They sailed the few hundred yards to the buoy. Albert yanked it up.
	"Why, the jammy little brat" said a prefect.
	Albert's face lit up with delight.
	"A lobster."
	Indeed, there it was, all strange and intimidating-looking, with its tentacles investigating the rope mesh of the cage, and with vicious, slightly dirty looking claws.
	"Not a crab even, but a lobster." said the prefect, "Well done Albert." He took out some tape and, grasping the lobster deftly, taped shut its claws.
	"A bit unsporting" he said, "but those things are vicious. We'll put it in a pail of water to keep it alive, and you're going to dine tomorrow, Albert."

	Br Damian asked him who he wanted it with, and he chose Abagail. So Abagail and Albert were called to the kitchen the next day and shown how to make lobster thermidor. The sauce was made with cream, fish stock, Parmesan cheese, mustard, onions, and brandy. The lobster was thrown alive into a big pan of boiling slated water, at which point it screamed.
	"Lobsters can't scream" explained Br Damian, "it's just the air coming out of its shell. It dies instantly."
	Not quite reassured, Albert and Abagail cut it in half, mixed up the meat with the sauce, and stuffed it back into its shell.
	They had to eat it in the kitchen to avoid exciting envy.
	"This is delicious" said Albert.
	"First time I've had lobster thermidor" said Abagail, "and, with any luck, we'll have venison next week, St Tom's is looking up. I'll have those specs, Albert" she said, grabbing Albert's spectacles.
	“Hey, I need those to see” said Albert.
	“I know you do.” said Abagail, “Unfortunately you lost them in the sea when you were tied to that rock. It's an emergency and you need to go to the opticians to get new ones. Father Abbot's got to give you permission.”
	“They saw that I had my glasses on” said Albert.
	“They won’t notice” said Abagail. 

	So it proved. Albert was told to get the boat that very next morning, to replace his spectacles so he could see and do schoolwork. He set off early, with the bows and arrows packed into a cello case he had borrowed from short Mary. He also took James' knife, some rope, matches and a few barbecue utensils.
	"What are you doing with a cello, Albert?" asked one of the second years, "I didn't know you even played it".
	Albert motioned for him to shut it, and then he was on the ferry and on the road to freedom.
	He checked in at the railway station, and instead of buying a ticket straight through, bought one that stopped off at a little station in a village near the forest. A long driveway led from the village to the huge mansion of the owner of the estate. Like most estates in Scotland, there were paths through it which were open to the public, as long as they kept to the marked right of way. Albert entered a short way onto the estate, and concealed the cello case in a hole by a tree, taking a note of the position with his GPS phone. Then he returned to the village, and completed the visit to the optician's in Saltcoates. who tested his eyes and had new lenses specially ordered for him. He got back last thing that night.
	All was set for the big trip out.
Chapter 15. The white stag

Monday morning the boys rose a hour before the rest of the school for Prime as usual, then they met Br Kieran and the two prefects by the minibus. Albert had his GPS phone handy. The girls arrived five minutes later. They were all dressed in old clothes, not school uniform, with the exception of Br Kieran who still wore his habit.
	"Everyone got their lunch, waterproofs?" Br Kieran called out, "bring your mobile phone if you have it, just to be on the safe side. Mary, you cannot walk through the Caledonian forest in those ridiculous shoes. Get proper boots on right away."
	Blonde Mary walked haughtily back to the dorm.
Eventually they were all present and correct.
	"Breviary?" said Abagail. Adam nodded.
	"We need to set up the traps by dawn" said Br Kieran, "to give us maximum time to catch some insects. Particularly because there won't be as many this late into autumn."

The ferry was already docked, and Br Kieran drove the minibus onto it. The children clambered aboard, and the ferryman loosed the mooring, and they were away, over the still dark strait separating the island from the mainland.
	"Thanks", Br Kieran tipped the ferryman, and everyone piled into the minibus,
	"I want that seat" said Abagail.
	"I was here first" protested blonde Mary, "get your own seat."
	"Two of the boys are going to have to lie on the floor" said Br Kieran, "it's not far."
	After a bit of squabbling Adam and Ibrahim were picked on by the prefects, who were named Mark and Gillian, to surrender their seats. So they lay in the narrow corridor between the banks of seats. Br Kieran drove for about half an hour, then the minibus pulled into a layby.
	"I stay here" he said, "two traps each, and separate into two groups of five. On second thoughts, I'll do it for you. Boys and girls. The prefects will show you how to set them up."
	Mark took a map and led the boys into the conifer forest. Gillian took the girls in the other direction.
	"Meet you at the Royal Mile" Mark said to Gillian after they had parted from Br Kieran. Abagail smiled.
	The traps consisted of two small buckets, with a steel cover that prevented leaves and other detritus from dropping directly into them, but was lifted up an inch or so above the bucket rim to allow the insects to enter. The bucket was filled with half an inch of water, to which was added honey, ethanol, and propene glycol to kill the insects. A pinch of a foul smelling powder called dentonium benzoate was added to deter small animals from drinking the solution.
	The buckets were arranged in pairs, about two feet apart, with a steel guide vane between them. An insect, crawling on its way, would reach the guide vane and, unable to cross it, follow it along either to the left or the right. Eventually it would reach a bucket, and drop in.
	You had to dig a hole for the bucket, add the ingredients, and then cover it with the metal cover. Then the trap was set up. It didn't take too long. Getting the right location on the map was the trickiest part.
	Abagail secreted away some of the ethanol.
	"Do they die of drink?" Abagail asked Gillian.
	"I think so" said Gillian, "the propene glycol won't do them any good either. It kills them and acts as a preservative."
	"So it's just normal alcohol, like you get in beer?" Abagail persisted.
	"It's ethanol, yes, exactly the same as normal alcohol" said Gillian, "But ask Br Kieran. I'm just the prefect."
	Abagail smiled. Gillian couldn't watch all five of them. Even if she was suspicious now, it was too late. The ethanol had been poured a few minutes ago into Abagail's water bottle.
	
	It took about an hour and a half to set up all the traps, by which time the Sun was firmly into the sky. They saw deer, and chaffinches.
	"OK, now we start the nature walk" said Gillian, "I want you to note down the species of all the trees that we pass, and take leaf samples of each new one."
	The girls groaned. This was boring. They worked their way slowly through the forest, painstaking noting down trees.

	The boys had a better time of it. As Br Kieran had said, all the trees in the coniferous forest were of the same species anyway. Mark had a guidebook, and contented himself with identifying small shrubs and plants they found on the forest floor.
	"Those mushrooms" he flipped through the guidebook, "anyone any idea what those are?"
	"It's either Coprinus comatus or Phallus impudicus" said James, "doesn't look much like a phallus to me."
	"We'll go for Coprinus comatus then", said Mark, "shaggy inkcap".
	"This one is green elf-cup" said Sebastian, "I've seen it before." Indeed it had stained a fallen branch green.
	They gradually made their way to the Royal Mile pub. A blue plaque said that it had been founded in 1203, as a post for Royal soldiers who protected the King of Scotland's hunting rights in the forest. The "Mile" wasn't a mile at all, but a corruption of the Latin miles, for soldier.
	"This would be where they stayed and rested after duty" said Mark, "and the King stayed here too. Now you lot are too young to drink. So just stay quiet whilst Gillian and I enjoy a quick pint."
	Gillian and the girls arrived a couple of minutes later. They had obviously synchronised their watches.
	"Two pints" said Mark.
	The children got their lunch boxes out. The proprietor didn't seem to mind. Abagail opened her water bottle, now full of pure ethanol.
	"Distract them" she whispered to Cecilia.
`	"There's a golden eagle" said Cecilia, and ran to the window. She dug Sebastian in the ribs.
"See it?"
	"Oh indeed I do" said Sebastian, "there's a golden eagle, circling low."
	Albert was on his feet, straining to see it.
	"I can't see it" he said.
	"It's gone from sight" said Sebastian, "no, there it is, see it Albert."
	Soon everyone except Abagail was clamouring around the tiny window.
	"Maybe we'll get a better view if we go outside" said Cecilia, and went to the door. Somewhat wearily, Mark and Gillian went to follow the first years. Seizing her chance, Abagail tipped out some of their beers onto the floor, and filled up the quantity with ethanol. Then she went to the door with the rest.
	"It was so low" said Cecilia, "surely it will come round again."
	Eventually they gave up. 
	"Well never mind" said Sebastian, "well get another chance to see it."
	"Time to pray" said Abagail.
	"What?" said Mark.
	"Abagail is right" said Adam, "it's noon." He dived into his satchel for the breviary.
	"You can't possibly sing Sexte in a pub" said Mark, "beside, we're away from the monastery."
	"OK" said Adam, "we'll do it outside. Anybody coming?"
	One by one all the children filed out. Sebastian took the position of cantor, and sang with a pure, clear note.
	"Oh God come to our aid"
	"Oh Lord make haste to help us"

	Sebastian give the reading

	"And the Lord said to Moses, “Go to the people and consecrate them today and tomorrow. Have them wash their clothes and be ready by the third day, because on that day the Lord will come down on Mount Sinai in the sight of all the people. Put limits for the people around the mountain and tell them, ‘Be careful that you do not go up the mountain or touch the foot of it. Whoever touches the mountain shall surely be put to death. He shall surely be stoned or shot with arrows; not a hand is to be laid on him. Whether man or animal, he shall not be permitted to live.’ Only when the ram’s horn sounds a long blast may they go up to the mountain.” 

After Moses had gone down the mountain to the people, he consecrated them, and they washed their clothes. Then he said to the people, “Prepare yourselves for the third day. 
On the morning of the third day there was thunder and lightning, with a thick cloud over the mountain, and a very loud trumpet blast. Everyone in the camp trembled. Then Moses led the people out of the camp to meet with God, and they stood at the foot of the mountain. Mount Sinai was covered with smoke, because the Lord descended on it in fire. The smoke billowed up from it like smoke from a furnace, the whole mountain trembled violently, and the sound of the trumpet grew louder and louder. Then Moses spoke and the voice of God answered him."

	"Some rum kids you've got there" said the barman, "another pint?"
	"OK, just one" said Mark.
	"Scarper" said Abagail, and everybody ran, not waiting for the concluding Psalm.

Within a few minutes, tired, they were well clear of the Royal Mile.
	"Poor prefects" said Cecilia.
	"They'll have to admit that they were in a pub, and they left us to pray the office on our own before they lost us" said Abagail, "and the best thing is, I managed to spike their drinks. So they'll be totally out of it."
	"How do you know it wasn't meths?" asked Cecilia, concerned.
	"I asked, silly." said Abagial,  "It's pure ethanol. You know, the same stuff that is in beer and whiskey."
	"GPS time" said Albert. Within a couple of minute's he'd located a route to where he had hidden the bows and arrows.
	"You've ruined my cello case" said short Mary.
	"Never mind" said James, "It's only there to protect the cello. Our bows and arrows are dry, and here's my knife. Stick the arrows into your satchels, like a quiver."
	Then they took off their outer garments and rolled them in the mud. Then James and Adam streaked mud onto everybody's face.
	"Come on Mary," James said to blonde Mary, "you don't want the deer to take fright at you." he streaked mud into her face, and she suddenly looked more glamorous, like a film star.
	"OK, now, after a deer. And don't let anyone see you."
	Bows in hands, they strode back into the forest. The walked for maybe a mile on narrow tracks until they saw a group of five deer in a clearing, browsing contentedly on the leaves. Two were does, one was a big stag, and there were two first year stags with new antlers. One of the young stags was a light colour.  
	Abagail's order was immediate.
	"Get that white stag".
	Cautiously, they approached, notching arrows to their bows. Blonde Mary, Mandy, and short Mary, who had refused to take part in the archery, brought up the rear. James drew his bow to full weight, and shot an arrow deliberately and accurately at the white stag. It hit it in the side, and the barbs Albert had provided it with meant that it stuck in. All five deer instantly ran away into the forest.
	"James, you idiot" Sebastian said, "Now we've got to follow that wounded animal up. We've got an awful job. Why couldn't you have waited?"
	"Sorry" said James, "at least I got it."
	"We're going to have to search the forest" said Sebastian, "otherwise it will die slowly and horribly. We must find that white stag."
	They went in the direction in which it had disappeared, but there was nothing to be seen, not even a trail of blood.
	"We need a dog" said Cecilia.
	"This is hopeless" said Adam, "we can't outrun a deer"
	"Well we've got to try" said Sebastian, "it's not going to go far with an arrow in its side."
	
	They tried for a few more minutes, but Adam was right, it was hopeless. Then Mandy screamed. A snake had slithered out of the underground, and menaced her leg. She froze, rooted to the spot in sheer terror. The eyes and tongue of the snake moved, very much alive, as it pondered what to do with her.
	Adam dived in and picked it up. It was warm to the touch, not slimy at all. Its coils slipped around his arms. He stroked it.
	"Adam, what are you doing?" said Cecilia, "Put that down. It's an adder."
	Adam put the snake down gently.
	Cecilia shook her head. "Come on, let's get out of its way" she said. They went another few hundred yards along the path, until they came to a small, fenced field. A horse was grazing in the middle of it, and jumps were set up for it to practise jumping over. There seemed to be nobody about.
	Sebastian and Cecilia looked at each other.
	"Does anyone have a mint?" asked Cecilia.
	Adam rooted in his pocket and took out an old packet. Cecilia went up to the horse and offered it the mint. "Now I've made friends with you" she said, stoking it's muzzle, "I'm going to have to borrow you. All in a good cause."
	"Go girl" said James and Sebastian, and lifted her onto its back.
	The horse was a magnificent animal, obviously used from show jumping in some of the top competitions. Cecilia had ridden Trumpert bareback before, but only round the yard. Now she had to do it in earnest.
	"Give me the rope" she said.
	The boys cut it and she made a crude bridle. It wasn't much, but it was just enough to give some control of the horse's direction.
	"Now go like the wind" said Cecilia, and slapped him.
	The horse went off at a brisk canter. Cecilia had the ride of her life. She had never ridden so expensive, so able an animal. The horse for his part had the ride of his life also. Never before had he had so small and light a rider as Cecilia on his back, and without a saddle either. It was like running free. They cantered through the forest, then broke into a full gallop for the broader paths. With the horse under her like a pair of wings, Cecilia could cover a lot of ground. Eventually she spotted the white stag, the arrow still sticking from his side, still with the other four deer. She turned the horse round, and went to inform the others.
	By the time they got there the group of deer had moved on, but by now Cecilia had less forest to search. it took her only a few minutes to find them again. She brought the horse to a slow walk by the others.
	The children fanned out, bows in hands, approaching cautiously so as not to startle their quarry, determined this time not to break discipline. Six arrows - Cecilia was still on the horse - were notched into bows, and drawn back. James nodded.
	At the same instant all six were loosed. Adam and Abagail missed. Ibrahim hit but bounced off. James, Sebastian,and Albert’s went full in, and the white stag sprang into the air. The other deer fled. It was left alone in the centre of the circle, and the children reloaded. They shot again, and this time every single arrow hit.
	"Grab it" said James, "disable its legs, or it will give us a nasty kick"
	Two children went for each limb, with James at the head. The stag was still alive, but obviously fatally wounded. James got out his knife and looked at Adam.
	 "Lord look with favour on this sacrifice" said Adam, "as once you accepted the gifts of your servant Abel, the sacrifice of Abraham, our father in faith, and the bread and wine offered by your priest, Melchizedek"
	"May the Lord accept the sacrifice at your hands" said Abagail, "for the praise and glory of His name, For our good and the good of all His Church."
	"Do it, James" said Adam.
	James closed his eyes, and drew the knife across the stag's throat. Blood spurted out, and it surrendered its life.
	Adam and James butchered the carcass, cutting off the fat thighs. There was fat round the thighs which they cut off also, and wrapped round them. By this time Sebastian and Albert had got a fire ready, on a platform they built out of stones. Adam put the thighs with the covering of fat on the fire, and they caught light, giving a sickly sweet aroma. Blue smoke ascended upwards. James cut another few joints.
	"This is Mandy's first kill" said Cecilia.
	Adam and James took some of the blood, and daubed it on Mandy's face. It mingled with the mud and washed some of it off. It was a solemn moment.
	"You are now one of us" said Abagail.
	Tears stung at Mandy's eyes, but they were tears of pleasure.
	
	A group of six young men and women in leather jackets appeared from the undergrowth.
	"Having a barbie?" asked the leader, a young woman in a fringed leather jacket, a short skirt, and glass beads threaded all over her shirt, which was loose and of a heavy cotton material.
	"Sure, join us" said James, in reality unsure about these people.
	Two young men had guitars, and another had a small drum. They set these up.
	"There's plenty of meat" said Sebastian, "the first portion should be ready now." He gave it to  Abagail, who filled her mouth with solid venison. It tasted good.
	The second bit, as seemed only fitting, he offered to the young woman who seemed to be the leader. She nodded slightly as she took it. 
	"We've got booze" said another young woman, and drew a box of wine from her satchel. The children all had drinking bottles or cups, and she filled each one in turn, starting with Abagail.
	"Cheers" said everyone.
	"We've got some bread rolls too. Help soak up all that meat." And they took some burger buns out of their satchels. By now everyone had a portion of meat in his hand.
	"What are you kids doing here, anyway?" asked the leader.
	"Collecting insects" said Abagail.
	Abagail took out her mobile phone and took a photo of the dead stag and the fire. She turned it on one of the men with guitars.
	"No photos" he said, and pushed the phone gently away. 
	They started a song. Everyone was experienced in singing after nearly a term at St Tom's, and they soon picked up the tune. It was a haunting melody, unlike anything anyone had ever heard before.
	Adam felt the wine going to his head. Someone started a dance going, and it was impossible not to join in. The three men played the guitars and the drum and the rest danced in a circle round the fire, which was now reduced to hot embers.
	"You're a rock band, aren't you?" Adam was wildly guessing. The leader woman just smiled at him.
	"Move your feet, one, two, one, two" she led him in the dance. His accustomed clumsiness fell all away, and he was happy and part of the pulsating circle of dancers. The musicians changed tune again, and they danced in the opposite direction. All was lightness and laughter.
	"Which of these girls do you like best?" the woman asked Adam.
	"Abbey" said Adam.
	"You can't dance with Abbey" she laughed, "who else."
	"So hard to tell."
	"You must choose."
	"Cecilia."
	Cecilia flushed with pleasure. The leader paired them and they danced in the centre of the circle, their faces reddening in the hot fire.
	Then the musicians lay down their instruments, and the children collapsed, exhausted, on the soft grass. The leader handed round some more wine. There was some talk, but Adam was too tired to follow it. Imperceptibly, he fell asleep.
	
	When they woke the rock band were gone. There was also no trace of the white stag, though the ashes of the fire were still warm. Also their bows and arrows had disappeared. The horse was gone as well.
	"Don't worry, I expect he'll find his own way back home" said Cecilia.
	"We'd better get back" said Albert, "Br Kieran will be out looking for us".
	They used Albert' GPS to find the Royal Mile. Mark and Gillian were still there, looking the worse for drink, but trying to hide it.
	"Where on Earth have you been?" demanded Mark, "It's time to go back to the traps already."
	"I could have sworn we spent several hours" said Cecilia, quietly, "plus time asleep."
	"Well don't worry about it" said Abagail, "don't get us into trouble."

They split up again to collect the traps, which had a reasonable collection of insects in them, mainly different types of beetle. These were all labelled and transferred, with some of the preserving fluid, to plastic beakers for identification in the lab.
	"Nice time kids?" said Br Kieran, who was in the minibus, reading a newspaper by the light of the passenger lamp, for it was now dusk.
	"Oh yes" said Abagail.
They were soon back at St Toms, and fast asleep.


The next day Abagail was checking the local paper on the Internet. She pulled up a story.
	"Rare white stag killed by poachers. A rare white stag, said to be worth over three hundred thousand pounds, was today reported missing, assumed brutally killed by poachers. The animal, which was one of only two in the world, had a genetic condition called leucism, which caused pigment in his skin to degenerate. Landowner Mr Baines, who owns the animal, was going to auction the right to hunt him to the highest bidder. Bids had already been accepted from as far away as Japan. Police are investigating."
	"Oh crumbs", said Abagail. There was only one thing to do, and she got a USB connector to her mobile phone.
	"Gillian" said Abagail and Cecilia, sweetly, "we'll do your room out as a thank you for taking us on the trip yesterday."
	Prefects had shared study bedrooms that were a bit bigger and nicer than everybody else's. They had their own washbasins and a place they could put down a sandwich or a cup of coffee, though like everyone else they were forbidden from cooking in bedrooms and had to use the prefect's kitchen. They could also have their own music and computers. There was quite a bit to tidy.
	That evening Abagail, on Albert's advice, took video clip after video clip, filling the memory of her phone several times over.

	"This is gross" complained blonde Mary, "even worse than the mice. All these dead beetles, and we're supposed to identify them."
	"Shut up Mary" said Br Kieran, and handed her the identification guide. "Use a magnifying glass if you have to."
	"Mainly woodlice in mine" said Albert, "they're not beetles at all. I think the situation is clear, the conifer forest is less diverse."
	"You certainly have fewer insects in your traps" said Br Kieran, "but maybe that means that the girls are better at setting them. You need to calculate the Shannon index."
	They did. Eventually, after a whole day's field trip with the entire class, and another good two hours' work in the lab, they were left with two numbers. 1.56 for the broadleaf forest, and 1.03 for the conifers.
	"That's it" said Br Kieran, "there's our result."

“I need some defence” complained Albert, pulling the ball for the third time from the bushes behind the two jerseys. The second years were beating them as usual.
	“You’ve got Sebastian, and Adam” said James, “how can we give you any more?
	“Why can’t we play 3 - 1?” asked Albert.
	“Some do” said Sebastian, “I’ve heard of it.”
	“OK, Ibrahim also back.”
	“No, not Ibrahim. He’s useless.”
	“Who else is there?” asked James. The obvious answer struck him.
	“If I’m back I won’t score any goals.”
	“But they won’t score any either.” said Albert, “it’s the difference that counts, not how many goals you score personally.”
	“It’s easier to defend than attack.” said Sebastian.
	“Which is why the best player is always the forward.” said James.
	“But we didn’t score any goals anyway against St Dunstan’s” said Sebastian. “So what does it matter. Go for nil-nil”.
	“You always get some chances” said Albert, “always.”
	James shook his head. They continued playing, and the second years scored a fourth goal. James suddenly realised what he must do, and played back.
 
The St Dunstan's team arrived two days later for the big match. It was held inside, in the gym. Since it was only a first year event there was no compulsion on the whole school to attend, but the girls were there on the balcony, watching, and also the second years with whom they played at lunchtimes. Andrew, who was captain of games, was there in his professional capacity and there were a few higher years who had nothing better to do. They had a pep talk from Br Gwilliam.
	"You can win this match" he said, "just play as a team, and show some attacking spirit. You've got your support behind you".
	"Everyone back except Ibrahim" said James, "just kill that game. Let nothing get through to Albert."
	St Dunstan's won the toss and kicked off. They instantly went forward. Sebastian intercepted, and passed to James, who kicked it up to Ibrahim. None of the St Tom's boys went forwards. Ibrahim was swiftly dispossessed by the St Dunstan's defender, and the ball came back onto the attack. James and Sebastian squabbled with the St Dunstan's boys over it in midfield, and then eventually passed it back to Albert, who kicked it out to Adam. Adam tried a pass up to Ibrahim but it went wide.
	St Dunstan's had a shot on goal, but Albert saved it. It went back up to Ibrahim, and was swiftly lost. At this stage, the St Dunstan's boys began to get over confident, leaving Ibrahim unmarked. Sebastian won the ball, and made a long pass to Ibrahim. Ibrahim was clear in front of the St Dunstan's goal, and made a shot. It hit the post. The St Dunstan's goalkeeper called out, as if to say "where is my defence?"
	After that St Dunstan's learnt their lesson, and were more cautious. As James had said, St Tom's killed the game. Time after time it the ball was won, and instead of building an attack, it was passed back to Albert, or passed up to Ibrahim. Only rarely, when a really good chance presented itself, did James or Sebastian risk going forwards in support. It wasted a lot of time. The spectators were cheering less loudly, looking bored.
	Eventually St Dunstan's did break through James and Sebastian, and then pushed easily past Adam. It should have been a save for Albert, but he mishandled it, and put the ball into his own net. One nil to St Dunstans.
	The ball was in play for a few minutes more, and it was the second half.
	"That's respectable" said James.
	"We just need lady luck" said Sebastian.

They kept the same tactics going in the second half. The St Dunstan's boys were getting frustrated, because they were outnumbered four to two, in the St Tom's half. Their superior play couldn't defeat those odds. Yet they daredn't bring the other two forwards, because Ibrahim was always lurking, always getting balls passed to him and losing them again.
	Sebastian saw a hole and a good chance, and rushed through it, delivering a powerful shot on target. The St Dunstan's goalkeeper just saved it, and there was a cheer. It bounced off, and to Ibrahim, who promptly put it into the back of the St Dunstan's net. There was a great cheer from the girls.
	St Dunstan's came back onto the attack, but couldn't penetrate the web of St Tom's defence. Eventually James and a St Dunstan's forward went for the same ball, collided, and went down in a heap. The St Dunstan's boy tried to get up, then fell back down again, clutching his calf. Br Gwilliam and the St Dunstan's teacher, Mr Warren, went onto the field.
	"It's a ham-string" said Mr Warren, "he'll have to come off."
	"In which case we lose one member" said Br Gwilliam, "James, who do you want to retire?"
	"Ibrahim" said James, instantly.
	Br Gwilliam looked at him curiously. "Have you really looked at your team?" he said.
	"Yes" said James, "Ibrahim goes off."
	"Well, it's your decision" Br Gwilliam shrugged.
	Ibrahim went off to applause.

	By now the game was looser. However St Dunstan's had lost their best player. James and Sebastian were winning against the other three. There were more chances, and the game became more exciting. Albert pulled off some spectacular saves, and the teams were still level.
	Albert distributed the ball out to Adam. He passed to James, who beat one of the St Dunstan's boys. He was in a clear space, and looked for Sebastian. Sebastian was being marked by the other two. The only possibility was Adam. The St Dunstan's goalkeeper thought James was planning a shot and came out to close him down. James passed to Adam. Adam controlled it. There was just a foot or so of space between the goal and the keeper. Adam closed his eyes and struck it. Oh joy! The ball sailed through the space, behind the goalkeeper and into the net. A few minutes later the final whistle blew. 2-1 to St Tom's.
	"It's the first we've ever won!" James was jubilant, "I knew Ibrahim was getting exhausted. My decision was right. But well done Ibrahim too, for getting our first."

	St Tom's laid on a decent supper for the players. The St Dunstan's boys got a cell next to them in the monastery.
	"It's kind of creepy in here" said one of the St Dunstan's boys, as they got ready for bed.
	"We're used to it" said Adam, "but I suppose it is. All those monks and statues and old graves."
	  
A parcel arrived for Albert on the ferry, and turned out to be the bows and arrows. It didn't have any address of a sender, and there was no letter with it.
	"We can go on another deer hunt" he told Abagail.
	"No we can't" said Abagail, "the police are coming. Just play dumb."
	As Abagail had predicted, the police arrived a day later, with no lesser man than the superintendent in charge. anxious to interview everybody about the day's events in the forest. At Abagail's instructions, everyone just said they had been together, played in the woodlands, and seen nothing suspicious.
	Meanwhile Mark and Gillian weren't honest about being drunk when they should have been looking after the first years, and suspicions were aroused. The police searched their possessions, taking away some of them for analaysis.
	They returned a day later, and tackled Gillian on why a picture of a dead white stag had been found on her phone.
	"I told you I'd get revenge on the prefects" said Abagail.
	"Abbey" said Cecilia, "that wasn't called for. Gillian is nice."
	"She's a prefect and that's what counts" said Abagail, "now she'll have all sorts of awkward questions to answer."
	Meanwhile the police also called in Jade. Apparently someone somewhere had accused her of dealing in cannabis. Sure enough, a substantial amount, too much for merely personal use, was found amongst her possessions. Fr Abbot was forced to suspend her pending the outcome of the trial. “We have zero tolerance to drugs” said the superintendent solemnly, addressing the whole school in the refectory.  
	Fr Abbot saw the back of the police that week. His school could finally get back to normal, or so he thought.
Chapter 16. Mandy gets into trouble again


Mandy told blonde Mary that she was expecting another visit from her suppliers in the next two days.
	“I’ve no money and no drugs either” she told her friend, “Adam and Albert threw them into the sea. Mike will be so angry. Can you come with me, Mary?”
	Blonde Mary was badly frightened by what had happened to Jade. Getting expelled was one thing, but if Jade was found guilty she could be sent to a reform school, where it would be strict shouting and physical exercises all day. Worst of all, the girls wouldn’t be nice like Abagail and Cecilia, they would be hard and aggressive, the daughters of criminals. Blonde Mary realised for the first time that she had real friends at St Tom’s.
	"Go to Fr Abbot" she told her, "it's the only way you'll be safe."
	Mandy knew in her heart that blonde Mary was right. But she shook her head. "He'll be so disappointed in me. And Cecilia told me he preferred not to know about things."
	“As you want, Mandy” said blonde Mary, “I can’t make these decisions for you. Just know that, whatever you decide to do, I’m there to support you one hundred percent of the way.”
	She kissed her tenderly.
	“So you’ll come with me?” asked Mandy.
	“Of course, Mandy, if that’s what you want. But it’s best if you see Fr Abbot alone. Otherwise it looks as though I’m forcing you to make a confession, and that’s not so good. But if you really want, I can sit with you.”
	That didn’t help.

	All through prep Mandy pondered what to do. The unbearable shame of a conversation with Fr Abbot, or the even worse encounter with Mike. Then the solution came to her. Blonde Mary had kept their drugs money alongside her own. The drugs side of the account was now exhausted, but blonde Mary had plenty of private money. You were meant only to keep a few pounds in cash, and the rest at the office, but blonde Mary ignored that rule. Which meant that she couldn’t report the money as stolen. And blonde Mary kept her key in a purse, which she put on the top of her locker at night. She’d have to be careful not to wake her, but she could easily take the money at night, whilst she slept, then hide it under the insoles of her trainers - Mandy had it all planned out in an instant - no short Mary’s trainers - then take the money to Mike.
\	That night, heart beating, Mandy willed herself to remain awake until the others were fast asleep. Then she took blonde Mary’s locker key from her purse, turned the lock as quietly as she could, felt in with her hand and extracted a wad of notes. She didn’t dare count them. Then she took out the insoles of short Mary’s trainers, and stuffed the notes underneath them. She went back to bed. It had taken her less than five minutes.

	“Abbey, Cecilia, tell me honestly” said blonde Mary the next morning, “did either of you take anything out of my locker, as a joke?”
	“Can’t see what sort of joke that would be” said Abagail.
	“Because someone’s taken three hundred pounds”
	“Report it” said Abagail.
	“I can’t” said blonde Mary, “we’re only supposed to have ten pounds in our lockers at any one time.”
	“We’ll have a collection” said Cecilia.
	“It’s not really the money” said blonde Mary, in distress, “it’s that someone would do that to me. I don’t believe it was any of you girls, I honestly don’t think it was any of you girls. Even short Mary, she wouldn’t do that. But someone, somewhere, must think they can just take …”she burst into tears.
	“There are some real bitches in second year” said Mandy.
	“We’ll find the thief” said Cecilia.
	“And when we do …” said Abagail.
	“What?” said Cecilia.
	“There’ll be an accident in the refectory. Boiling water. She’ll be scalded for life.” said Abagail.
	Blonde Mary smiled through her tears.


	“There’s the boat again” said Albert, as they dawdled back from Compline.
	Adam looked out to sea. He knew the shipping lanes by now, and indeed it almost certainly was.
	“The ungrateful …” he left the thought unfinished.
	“We’ve hardly any time Adam, come on.” called Albert, dragging him to the monastery.
	Quickly the two boys pulled on their coats and grabbed their torches. Then, being careful to shine their lights on the path, they ran as fast as they could towards the old jetty. They saw the flash flash flash of the red light, not far out to sea, as the boat signalled to Mandy.

	Mandy gave the signal in reply, flashing with her torch. But she was feeling guilty. “What am I”. she thought, “that I have stolen money from my best friend? “Then every one of the first years now knew that she was selling drugs, but none had shopped her to Fr Abbot, not even Adam. How had she repaid that trust? And by now she was afraid of Mike. This time, she had managed to scrape together enough money to pay him, but what of next time? The light of the boat drew towards the jetty. Mandy watched it for some time. She had to make a decision, but she couldn’t decide. To go to Fr Abbot was unthinkable, but to go to Mike was to get deeper and deeper into the mire.

	“We can’t jump her like last time” said Albert, “she’ll be prepared.”
	“Hadn’t thought of that” admitted Adam	 
	“There’s her torch.” said Albert, indeed, there was a tiny point of light, further along the path. Quickly the two boys turned off their torches. However there was hardly enough light to see. Carefully, trying not to make a noise, they sneaked off the path and towards some boulders by the sea.
	Two large torches appeared along the path, going towards Mandy’s torch. Albert pulled Adam flat on the ground. They could hear footsteps, heavy, male footsteps.
	“Mandy, “ said a voice, “why aren’t you at the boat? If this is a trap …”
	 “I’ve got the money” said Mandy.
	“Has someone threatened you?” said the voice.
	There was an inaudible reply.
	“Don’t worry about the police superintendent” said the voice, “now come on, be a good girl.”
	“I don’t want to do this any longer.”
	There was a sharp slap, and  a cry of pain.
	“What you want doesn’t count. You’re paid to get the merchandise into that school, and that’s what you’re going to do. Now I’m asking you again, has anyone threatened you?”
	There was another mumble.
	“I’ll hit you again. Now give me the name. Adam? Don’t worry, we’ll deal with this Adam character.”
	Adam felt his blood go cold. “Sneak” was the only thought in his mind.
	Mandy was dragged protesting towards the jetty.
	“Come on” said Albert, and the two boys followed at a distance. They got to the edge of the jetty,  and daren’t step onto it. The boat was bathed in a pool of light, moored at the terminus.
	“Now what do we do?” said Adam.
	“We get the name and registration of that boat” said Albert, “then straight to Fr Abbot.”
	“How? They’ll see us if we step onto the jetty.”
	“Swim.”
	“Are you serious? It’s too cold.”
	“It’s only a few yards. And they’ll be two of us.” said Albert.
	“OK” Adam pulled off his clothes. The two boys piled their things onto the beach, and waded together into the water, keeping close to the side of the jetty. They could get most of the way before they had to swim, keeping their hands under the water so as not to break the surface and make a tell-tale splash.. Surprisingly, Adam didn’t feel all that cold.
	Swimming the few yards to the end of the jetty, they made out the stern of the boat. The name, home port and registration number would be printed there. All they had to do was get up closely enough and quietly enough to make out the letters through the gloom.  
	Adam felt the comforting presence of Albert, behind him. The boat was just feet away from them. Adam could see black lettering on the white stern, but couldn’t make out the name. Albert made goggles with his hands on his eyes. Adam understood. He had left his glasses on the beach, and there was no way he could read the name. It was down to Adam.
	Adam swam gently to within a couple of feet of the stern. He could hear Mandy and the men arguing in the boat.
	“You were in Mr Baines’ forest when that deer was taken” said a voice, “you must know who did it.”
	“I don’t”, pleaded Mandy .
	“Come on Mandy,” said another voice, “Who’s side are you on?”
	“Mr Baines wants to know who stole his deer,” said the first, “and you’re the person to tell him. It wasn’t Gillian, was it, she had nothing to do with it.”
	“No” said Mandy.
	“So who was it? Was it Adam.”
	“I can’t tell you that” said Mandy.
	“Why not?” asked the first.
	“I can’t tell you why.” said Mandy, “You’ve got the money. Now leave me alone”.
	“Mandy, we’ve told you before. Do you want to go to a reform school? Do you want your mother to be beaten up in jail? Because we can fix all that, and more, if you don’t do as you are told. You’re working for us now,  and your target is to increase sales by 50%. It’s pathetic what you’re selling, it really is. Do you think we come all this way so that you can hand out a few joints to your friends? We want real money. Your target is 50%, or next thing you hear, your mother will have been beaten up. Do you understand me?”
	Adam drew in a sharp intake of breath. So that was why Mandy was dealing in drugs. She was being blackmailed.
	Quickly he read the boat’s name, “Lethe”, and registration number, it was registered on the Clyde, 406723.  He nodded to Albert.
	“So how long do you think it will take you to sell five hundred pounds worth?” asked someone.
	“Mike, there’s a seal or something.” said someone else.
	Suddenly a powerful flashlight was shone upon the water. Adam immediately dived. He could see nothing under the water, and kicked out in the vague direction of the shore. He swam underwater for as long as he could, then broke the water to take a breath in, and dived once more. After swimming again for as long as he could, he risked a look, and attempted to tread water. His feet caught the bottom. He was swimming in only a few feet of water.
   	The powerful flashlight was shining at the end of the jetty. Two adult figures were moving about, and between them,  something small and very white. They had caught Albert.
	Slowly the figures moved down the jetty, towards where Adam was standing, all but his head covered by the water.
	“They’ll find our clothes” thought Adam, “then they’ll know there were two of us.”
	A sudden, mad thought struck him. The smugglers had left the boat. Surely, if he swam back to it, he could unhook the mooring rope, and set it adrift. Diving under the water again, the swam in the opposite direction, towards the boat.
	The flashlight was at the shore end of the jetty by the time Adam surfaced, and looked around. The jetty rose sheer from the water. However there were crevices in the ancient stone, and Adam had bare toes. He climbed. If he fell he would fall into water, that was a comforting thought. His hands reached the stone platform, and painfully he dragged himself onto the causeway. The rope was wound round a stone pillar. If only he had brought James’ knife.
	There wasn’t much light from the boat, but Adam worked quickly. His fingers found the knot. It wouldn’t move.
	“There must be some easy way” he thought, “or they wouldn’t be able to cast off .”
	“You pull the thread at the side of the knot.”
	The voice was sudden, coming from the inside of the boat. It wasn’t empty, after all. Of course, he should have realised. They wouldn’t leave Mandy alone with their vessel.
	A large man hopped from the boat to the quay. 
	“Get on the boat” he ordered, putting his hand round Adam’s neck.
	Adam was too frightened to try to run for it.
	“Thank goodness they’ve found you” said Mandy, “Adam, they were going to threaten to kill Albert if you didn’t give yourself up. You must do as they say. These people won’t mess about.”
	“Shut up” said the man.
	“What harm is she doing?” said Adam.
	“You shut up too” said the man, “what do you think you were doing, anyway?”
	“Just playing” said Adam.
	“At  ten O’Clock at night?” said the man, “tell us what you were doing. Were you hassling Mandy?”
	“Chris, he didn’t mean any harm” said Mandy, “Please, Chris, just let us go.”
	“I said shut up” said Chris.
	The other two men returned, with Albert, carrying their clothes.
	“Looks like you’re not as clever as you think you are” said the slick man, “who told you to spy on us?” 
	“Please, Mike” said Mandy, “no-one told them. They didn’t mean anything.”
	“Who is this one?” asked Mike.
	“Adam” said Mandy.
	“So” Mike curled his lip, “the famous Adam. You’ve been a major nuisance to us, Adam. I’ve a good mind to put you and your friend away. You were swimming in the sea, late at night. No-one will know if a wave swept you both away. One of those tragic things that happens.”
	“No, Mike, please” said Mandy.
	“Shut up” said Mike, “None of your business. Alternatively you could work for us. It’s your choice, Adam and Albert,   a watery grave, or stop working for whoever is controlling you, and work for us big boys.”
	“It’s not so easy to commit an undetected murder” said Adam.
	“So” laughed Mike with a sneer, “this one has attitude. What choice do we have, Adam?”
	“You’ve got to kill them” said Chris, “sorry, boys, but you brought this on yourselves.”
	“No” said Mandy.
	Mike struck her hard across the mouth.
	“I said shut up” he said, “It’s none of your business. If it wasn’t for your incompetence, Mandy, we wouldn’t be in this mess. You think I like drowning two schoolboys? But there’s no choice, I have to do it.”
	“Shall I put the clothes back on shore?” said Chris.
	“Yes, do that” said Mike, and Mandy’s too”
	“Mine?” said Mandy.
	“You’ve finished your usefulness to us” said Mike, “it’s just too dangerous to keep you running any longer. Best if you go in the sea.”
	“What‘s that light?“ said Chris.
	The children turned their faces towards the shore. There was a light at the end of the jetty, and, clearly bathed in the pool of radiance cast by the light, the cowled figure of a monk.
	“Brother Dominic!” said Mandy, then screamed at the top of her voice, “Brother Dominic!”
	“You’re busted” said Adam.	
Chris made to strike him over the cheek, but Mike called, “Get the brats away, you idiot, and cast off, It‘s our only chance of not being caught.“
	Unceremoniously the three were bundled off the boat and onto the jetty. Chris pulled the mooring knot, and the boat cast off.
	The three made it down the jetty. The light faded.
	“Where’s Br Dominic?” asked Albert.
	“Maybe he ran to get help?” suggested Adam.
	“The light faded.” said Adam.
	“Well he’s not here now” said Adam, “come on, I’m freezing. And we’ll have to explain how we lost our school uniforms.”
	“I’m just glad to be alive” said Mandy. 
	“Well if it wasn’t for your stupid drug deals we wouldn’t have all been put in danger” said Adam, “I can still see that boat out to sea”.
	“Let’s get off the path, in case they change their minds and come after us” said Albert.

	“Where’s Mandy?” said Cecilia, “it’s nearly roll-call for bed.”
	Abagail shrugged, “I don’t know. Gone for a walk, I expect.”
	“In this freezing cold?” said Cecilia, “She must have gone to get drugs.”
	“I thought Adam and Albert put a stop to that.” said Abagail.
	“Obviously not. Abbey, that must be it.”
	A sudden thought struck Abagail, “She must have taken blonde Mary’s money. To buy drugs with.”
	“You’re right,” said Cecilia, “what an awful thought.”
	“So what do we do?” asked Abagail.
	“Tell blonde Mary” said Cecilia, “It’s her money.”
	 Blonde Mary was shocked.
	“Do you know this?” she asked.
	“No,” said Abagail, “but it all makes sense. Adam told me that he and Albert threw Mandy’s drugs into the sea. So where’s she getting money from, to buy another supply? Then the money went missing from your locker. Who knew you had that much there? Mandy. And how likely is it that a second year sneaked into our dorm? OK, I’ll admit it’s possible. But is it likely? It’s just got to be Mandy.”
	“But Mandy is my friend” said blonde Mary.
	“Mary” said Cecilia, “you two were never real friends. You used each other, she got drugs for you, you were the glamorous associate for her. But you weren’t real friends.”
	“So what do we do?” asked blonde Mary.
	“Confront her” said Abagail.
	“She’ll just deny it” said Cecilia, “she’ll be lying, and we’ll know that she’s lying, and she’ll know that we know she’s lying. But we won’t be able to prove it.”
	Blonde Mary thought. Then she smiled.
	“You girls did a collection.” she said, “I don’t really need the money, though I’m very grateful for the thought. Now I’m going to use that money.”
	She took out a hundred pounds, and put it on Mandy’s locker, hiding it under a notebook.
	“Let’s see how she deals with that.”
	Mandy was still missing at roll call. Matron called lights out, and said she’d report to Fr Abbot.
	The girls waited, none able to get to sleep.
	“She must be in some sort of trouble” said Abagail, “she’d never miss roll call deliberately.”
	“Maybe she didn’t steal the money after all” said blonde Mary, “how rotten we’d feel, if she went missing, and the last thing we did was to suspect her of stealing.”
	“Her fault for getting such a bad reputation” said short Mary.
	Eventually Mandy came. She came in through the main door, and put the light on.
	‘Mandy,” said blonde Mary, “everyone’s been missing you. Cecilia and I, and of course Matron. Even your lockers’ been missing you.”
	“My locker?” said Mandy, curiously.
	“Yes” said blonde Mary, “your locker’s been quite worried. Go and say hello to it.”
	Mandy went to her locker. She started to unlock it, then noticed something under the notebook. She moved it, and withdrew in shock.  There was a pile of bank notes.
	“I didn’t steal” she said.
	“Caught” said Abagail.
	“How do you know? Where’s your proof?” said Mandy, bewildered.
	Four girls smiled at her thinly.
	“Innocent people don’t say ‘where’s your proof’” said Abagail, at last.
	Tears began to flow down Mandy’s cheek.
	“You’re your own worst enemy” said Cecilia.
	“You’re out of this school” said short Mary.
	“Mandy” said blonde Mary, “I didn’t believe you could take my money. Cecilia said we two were never friends. We were just using each other. Tell me that wasn’t true, Mandy.”
	“I don’t know” said Mandy.
	“It wasn’t true.” said blonde Mary. “Look, Mandy, keep the hundred pounds. I forgive you, Mandy.”
	“You can’t do that” said short Mary.
	“She stole three hundred, now you’re giving her hundred for doing it” said Abagail “some rich girl.”
	“It’s my money” said blonde Mary.
	“And it’s worth four hundred pounds just to show that I was wrong” said Cecilia, “Mandy, you’ve got another chance. I told blonde Mary you stole the money because you and her were just using each other, but blonde Mary doesn’t want that. She wants you to be her real friend. Now for heaven’s sake give her that.”
	Blonde Mary went over and hugged the still crying Mandy.
	“This calls for a quick drink” said Abagail. “Lights off, torches on.” 
 
Fr Abbot called all three to his office the next morning.
	"They were drug smugglers" said Adam, "they made Mandy work for them by threatening her mother, who is in jail. We followed her, but they caught us and said they’d throw us all into the sea and drown us. “
	“Do you have any proof of this?” asked Fr Abbot.
	“The three of us”
	“Are friends and confer. How does anyone know that you’re not just making this up?”
	“One of the monks saw us in the boat. The smugglers saw his lantern. That’s why the smugglers let us go.”
	“We had a school meeting last night,” said Fr Abbot, “all of the monks were present.”
	“Well we certainly saw one. All three of us. The smugglers too. They wouldn’t have let us go otherwise.”
	“Unfortunately that won’t stand up in court, and these organisations are very pervasive. No real point jailing the three men who were in the boat, They’re just the minor players. The brains behind the operation wouldn’t take those sorts of risks.”
	“So there’s nothing you can do?” said Adam. 
	“I doubt I can send them to jail” said Fr Abbot, “but somehow I think that boat will be making no more visits to our island. Well done, you two.”
	“But we know who the big man is” said Adam, “they tried to get out of Mandy who was responsible for killing the white stag. Which can only mean one thing. Mr Big is Mr Baines.”
	“And how would Mandy know who killed the white stag?” asked Fr Abbot.
	Adam grinned sheepishly.
	“Children,” said Fr Abbot, “as I said, none of this will stand up in court. Mandy, you can’t protect your mother. Attempts to do so just put her in more danger. She’s chosen her own path in life, and she must tread it as best she can. She is the parent, you are the child. Maybe you’ve learned something from this, I don’t know.”
	"I know now who my real friends are" said Mandy.
	"Who are?"
	"Adam and Albert and ..."
	"Cecilia?" suggested Fr Abbot.
	"Cecilia? Well yes," thought Mandy, "I suppose Cecilia too."
	"So, a bit alarming" said Fr Abbot, "but all in all a very successful term. Now let us see who does best in the exams. "

Abagail read the local paper on the Internet the next day, and found that the wife of the chief constable had won a million pound jackpot at a casino. No charges were ever brought against Mike, Chris and Lionel. Mandy perpetually worried about the threat to her mother, but there was nothing she could do about it. Not all problems could be resolved. 

Then it was extra prep, to revise for the examinations. The whole school took them at the end of the term, with the exception of sixth-formers, who had public examinations for university entry to prepare for.
	"What is my strongest subject?" thought Abagail, "I don't really know. Unlike Adam I'm reasonably good at everything, but don't like anything. Why do we have to do lessons?"
	Adam too was in despair. Science was his strongest subject, but almost everything else seemed to have problems. He couldn't remember vocabulary lists for Latin. Maths was still weak, music hopeless. English was a bright spot but you couldn't really revise for that. History he was quite good at, but it didn't count for much since it was only two periods, and he hadn't worked hard at it. He began to find himself longing for the penultimate week to be over.
	Mandy however was in her element. All her problems had dropped away, and she was good at academic work. The other girls started coming up to her for help with problems.
	Ten to the power is a logarithm" she explained to blonde Mary, "when you multiply two of the same number to different powers, you add the powers. So it's easy. Numbers, logs, add the logs, and convert back to a number, and you've multiplied."
	"But what's the point" said blonde Mary, "why not just use the calculator?".
	"I don't know" said Mandy, "just do it, Mary, to get through the exam. It isn't hard."
Cecilia wanted help on the Exodus. Mandy tested her on the ten plagues of Egypt.
	"The turning of the Nile to blood,  frogs, lice, flies, a grievous murrain on their cattle, boils, hail, locusts, darkness and the killing of the first born." said Mandy, "Can you remember that lot, Cecilia?"
	"The Pharaoh's sorcerors also turned water to blood" said Cecilia, "and created frogs. But they couldn't reproduce the lice. Are we expected to believe that, Mandy?"
	"Fr Eugene said they would have had sorcerors" said Mandy, "but he didn't say anything about being able to turn water to blood. I think we've got to decide."
	"Surely things like that can't happen" said Cecilia.
	"I don't know, Cecilia" said Mandy, "I saw a ghost once."
	"Really, where?" asked Cecilia.
	"At St Tom's" said Mandy.
 	"Why didn't you tell everybody?"
	"Because you weren't talking to me at the time." said Mandy.
	"Oh Mandy, I'm sorry. That was so silly." said Cecilia, "But you did hurt me, you know. You can kick viciously, and for no reason."
	Mandy looked down.
	"I was just feeling so rejected by the other girls and, Cecilia, I saw your letter home." she said.
	"Letter home?" said Cecilia.
	"In which you said I was not the sort of person you ought to be mixing with." said Mandy.
	"Oh Mandy" said Cecilia, "I didn't mean that. It was just to persuade my parents to let me go home. So much misunderstanding, over such a silly thing. But you shouldn't have been reading people's private letters, anyway."
	"Blonde Mary showed me" said Mandy.
	"Now did she?" said Cecilia.
	"Blood, frogs, lice ..., I can't remember, Mandy", said Cecilia, "Do run through it again." 
	  
	"Ibrahim, if you go into the exams stoned you will fail" Adam was almost beside himself.
	"Oh leave him alone, Adam" said James, "it's his look out".
	"No it's not" said Adam, "If he does badly it reduces standards for all the rest of us. Ibrahim, cut the dope."
	"I don't care" said Ibrahim.
	"It's useless" said Albert.
	"Where's he getting it from, anyway" said Adam.
	"Rupert" said Albert.
	"Who gets it from?"
	"I don't know. Adam, if you're on some sort of crusade against all drugs, count me out. Mandy, yes, I care about, but blonde Mary and Ibrahim can stew in their own juice for all I care." said Albert, "I've got to pass."
	Ibrahim parked himself on his bed. "Just don't get so worked up about things, relax." he said.
	"What a waste of time" said Adam, "we get rid of one bunch of smugglers, and the drugs just come in from another direction."
	"Well what did Fr Abbot tell you?" said Albert, "Come on, lets work through this. A logarithm is when you change a number into ten to the power of something. You can get them by pressing the right button on the calculator. Now how does the calculator work them out?"
	"I don't know" said Adam.
	"So we're going to have to leave that question" said Albert. "Natural logs are logs to the base e, and you can also have logs to the base 2. In fact it doesn't matter what number you use as the base."
	"Except one" said Adam.
	"Except one. And zero. Zero to the anything is still zero."
	"No it's not" said James,  "zero to the zero is one. So you can have base zero logs"
	"As long as the only numbers you need are one and zero" said Albert.
	"And zero to the minus something is infinity." said James, "So you can have one, zero, or infinity."
	"We could have a base zero numbering system" said Adam.
	"Numbering is logs" said Albert, "two to the zero, two to the one, two to the two, two to the three. That's a binary numbering system, as used in computers."
	"So if e is natural logs, why don't we use a base e numbering system?" asked Adam.
	"That's one for Br Jumbo" said Albert.

Adam went to the old cemetery for a quiet moment. He found that the revision was overwhelming him, and he was nervous about the exams. Mandy appeared.
	"How are you doing, Adam?" she asked.
	"Worried" said Adam.
	"You shouldn't be" said Mandy, "you are one of the cleverest, Adam"
	"Everyone says that" said Adam, "but I'm bad at so many things, like music and Latin and maths. And I'm not the best at anything. Albert is better than me at science, you and Cecilia better at English."
	"Just draw up a revision timetable, Adam" said Mandy, "I do Latin, RE, then maths and science, English and history. I do two subjects a day, and put the similar subjects together."
	"I can't do it, somehow" said Adam.
	"So you just walk here" said Mandy.
	"Yes" said Adam, "and by the sea. I practise the Psalms."
	"I thought you didn't like singing" said Mandy.
	"Oh, I do" said Adam, "to myself. It's just that I can't get the notes."
	"Don't you find this place scary, on your own?" asked Mandy.
	"No" said Adam, "but I once saw a ghost here. I'm hoping to see him again."
	"A ghost?"
	"A monk" said Adam.
	"I've seen him too" said Mandy, "in this spot."
	"When" asked Adam.
`	"When you killed the rabbit"
	"You weren't there when we killed the rabbit" said Adam.
	"I realised the dorm was empty and sneaked out to spy on you." said Mandy.
	"That was when I saw the ghost" said Adam.
	"So he only comes out once of twice, not very often. Probably we'll never see him again." Mandy sighed, "It was always obvious that this island was going to be haunted."
	Adam went to the gravestone.
	"'Hic jacet sepultus Gregorias abbas' 'Here lies buried Gregory the abbot'. I wonder if that is him" he said.
	"We should have found out" said Mandy.
	"It's almost the end of term now" said Adam, "If we hadn't wasted so much time arguing with each other, maybe we would have known who Gregory the Abbot was."



Chapter 17. The term ends

The week of the exams came all too soon. There was a special timetable, just for examinations. Like everything else, they were interrupted by the offices of Terce, Sexte, and None. 
	Adam found that his nerves disappeared as soon as the paper was in front of him. Even the maths paper was not as difficult as he had expected. English was pure delight - a passage to analyse, then a story to write, nothing you could revise for at all. The science exam was easy, history hard. The only washout was music. Br Bernard had set questions about notes and tones, and Adam simply didn't know the difference. Then there was a tune to identify from the music. Adam could match the notes to the letters for them, but as for identifying the tune, you might as well have asked him to interpret hieroglyphics. All in all, however, he was confident that he had done well.
	Abagail was pleased also. She hadn't really put in much effort over the term, she realised, but she felt she had done credit to herself. The tune was easily identifiable as "Puff the Magic Dragon", which they had played on recorders several times before. Her story was a story about a school where they taught magic. "No-one would want to read a story about us" she thought to herself, "if only I went to a school that was more exciting." She wasn't bad at any subject, even maths or Latin, which she found the hardest. You had to get it right in those subjects. In everything else, you could just waffle.
	Ibrahim and blonde Mary, however, had a terrible time. Neither had done anything more than the bare minimum for the entire term, and now it caught up with them. Blonde Mary couldn't ask anyone for help, even Mandy. She was not so bad in the arts subjects, but mathematics and science were awful for her. Ibrahim was awful at everything.
	
On Saturday they got the results back. James was first, Mandy second, and Adam third. Cecilia was fourth, and Albert and Abagail joint fifth. Albert had done well in maths and science, but been let down by his other subjects. Sebastian was seventh, short Mary eighth (a surprise, that, said Br Dominic) and blonde Mary ninth. Ibrahim trailed easily at tenth.
	Adam followed Ibrahim out of the room. He went to an area where the sea beat at steep rocks.
	"Ibrahim, you're not going to throw yourself into the sea." said Adam.
	"Don't be silly. I don't care." said Ibrahim.
	"You wouldn't have left like that unless you did care" said Adam, "Next term, why not gel with Albert and me? Leave the Jade, Olivia, blonde Mary scene."
	"I like a good time" said Ibrahim, "can't be bothered with all this schoolwork. What does it matter, anyway? In seventy years' time we'll all be equally dead."
	"I've no easy answer" said Adam, "but you scored one of the goals when we beat St Dunstan's. You were there when we slew the white stag. You can join in, Ibrahim. It doesn't have to be like this. It's all in your mind."
	"It's too dangerous to go back to Pakistan" said Ibrahim, "I'm spending Christmas here."
	"So that's what's bothering you." said Adam, "We've nothing really worthwhile to go back to either, just a horrible stepfather called Alex."
	"It's the wrong school for me. You realise I'll be singing psalms in that chapel, on Christmas day."
	"They'll be others staying over, Ibrahim" said Adam, "Like Mandy, maybe."
	"Lucky Mandy" said Ibrahim.
	"What's she got that you haven't?" asked Adam.
	"She came second" said Ibrahim, "but most of all, she's happy. What has she done to deserve it?"
	"I don't know, Ibrahim" said Adam, "Life is strange. Mandy did everything wrong that it was possible to do wrong, but here she is, second only to James in class order, everyone her friend. Whilst short Mary tried so hard, but at the end of the day only ended up making herself unpopular. That's the way things go. We can't control the gifts that we have, and we have only a loose idea what the results of our actions will be. Look out onto the sea, Ibrahim. See the endless expanse of water that both imprisons us and is our playmate. So is life. The surface may seem empty and devoid of possibility, but below all kinds of strange creatures are swimming. And at the end of it all is a further shore, even if you cast out far into the Atlantic, eventually you will come to America. Life is just a voyage, and you are just at its beginning."
	"I don't see it" said Ibrahim, "Here we are, to be bored and take drugs. Worked, bored, then more work. I wish I was out of it. I wish I was going home."
	"We're at the end of term, Ibrahim. There are no more lessons. O, listen. There's the bell."
	The two boys hurried into the chapel for Sexte.

	
	 "Adam, what are you doing?" said James, "you've got all your stuff to pack."
	It was true. Without the discipline of prefects to keep things tidy, their utility room had got into a shambles. A terms' worth of stuff was all over, and would in no wise fit back into their trunks.
	"Soon we're out of this dump" said James.

	
Fr Abbot held a debrief on the term and the examination.
	"So you were right about Mandy, Fr Abbot, and I was wrong" said Br Dominic, "She seems finally to have been accepted. Exactly how it happened I do not know, but there she is, happy as a lamb. And she came second in the examinations. Some bright girl."
	"Not to be compared to Adam" said Br Kieran, "orally Adam is best in the class. But he doesn't take care with his written work, and loses marks."
	"He does take care with his English" said Br Robin, "The handwriting is sloppy, the spelling and punctuation a bit loose, but the words on the page are very good. I'd vote for Adam as the best in my class, too."
	"But his music is hopeless" said Br Bernard, "absolutely a lost cause."
	"So those were our two main worries" said Fr Abbot, "and they seem to have fought each other to death. At least that's what I heard."
	"The other worry is Ibrahim" said Br Dominic, "he's going to have to leave, if he doesn't improve."
	"Adam has taken him under his wing" said Fr Abbot, "in fact I told him to do so. If Adam can't cure him, no-one can. Let alone any other school. We'll worry about expelling Ibrahim when we come to it."
	"And Sebastian?" said Br Jumbo.
	"Problems there under the surface" said Br Dominic, "but not easy to put your finger on. Like Adam he's emotionally distant. Unlike Adam it's controlled. But he's had a good term, I'd say. Not startling academically."
	"Short Mary?"
	"She's had a good scourging and she deserved it, the little puritan." said Br Dominic, "But I think she's beginning to see the error of her ways. Hopefully she won't pull out. She's started smoking, by the way, which I'm in two minds about. Blonde Mary needs a good beating too, but hasn't had it."
	"You can't do everything" said Br Kieran, "she's just like her mother, really. You should hear the squeals of protests when she's got to do a science job that is slightly dirty."
	"James?"
	"Nearly got himself killed, which would have required some explaining to his parents. He's in the right place. Adam tries to stand up to him, not all that successfully, I would say." Br Dominic paused. "Cecilia we've cured. A textbook case."
	"And Albert?"
	"Don't underestimate Albert. Adam would be nowhere without him. Gets the job done, quietly and with no fuss. He's pretty academic too, on the technical side, he's not just a hobbyist you know."
	"Those bows were measured and individually fitted" said Br Peter.
	"You let him get away with murder" said Br Dominic, "I always dread to think what will come out of that toolshed."
	"That leaves"
	"Abbey. Abbey seems to have spent her whole term doing, exactly what?" said Br Dominic, "She hasn't done any work to speak of, and she hasn't messed about enough to attract attention. She's hardly been in trouble, but she hasn't been a goody two-shoes. She came in the middle of the class for all her subjects. What exactly has Abagail done?"
	"What exactly?" said Fr Abbot, "Well she seems to be a popular girl. Maybe Abbey has done more than we imagine. Anyway, that wraps up everything, brothers. Now we just have to arrange a Christmas party for Mandy and Ibrahim, and of course the other years who are also staying."

	"Stop trying to decipher that Latin, Adam" said Abagail, "you know it's way too hard. The exams are over, anyway."
	"This is the mystery of Gregorias" said Adam, "if you'd seen him you'd want to get to the bottom of it too."
	"A tree and a shadow" said Abagail, "I'm not interested in some old, long dead abbot. I've got enough Fr Abbots of my own to worry about. We need one last trick."
	"One last trick?"
	"To show them how much we hate the food. And the cold showers. And the discipline. And practically everything else about this place. A trick that will show the monks that, then we'll be off and it will be too late to do anything." Abagail was getting into her stride, "And I'd like a bit more revenge on those prefects."
	"Gillian's father had to hire a lawyer."
	"It's not enough" said Abagail.
	"OK, Abbey, I'm on" said Adam.
	"You know that someone stole money from blonde Mary’s locker?”
	“Yes”
	“They must have known she was into drugs. That’s why she had so much. What if a prefect thought there were still drugs, like in the toilet cistern?”
	"They'd go to grab them for themselves" said Adam, "Unless they were a honest, of course, in which case they'd tell the police."
	"But the they would check that the story was true first." said Abagail, "So he'd go to the toilet, extract the bag, and  ..."
	"Open it, find some packets of white powder" said Adam.
	"Which are in reality ..."
	"We need Albert" said Adam.
	"Bicarbs of soda" said Albert, "it looks just like cocaine. In fact cocaine is cut with it. And vinegar. And we need a dye to be released at the same time as the vinegar, to stain the prefect. For that we need to nick some hair dye or something, or maybe food dye from the kitchen"
	"Just use ink" said Adam.
	"Indelible red ink, Br Dominic uses it for marking. Abbey, get a teat pipette from the science room, and pipette a bit up" said Albert.
	"So how do you get the vinegar and the bicrabs of soda to mix?" asked Adam.
	"It's as simple as two plastic bags" said Albert, "the ink and the vinegar are in the inner plastic bag. The bicarbs of soda are wrapped round so it won't show. Then you seal the mouths of both bags with the same strip of sellotape, and then tape it round a bit to make it look convincing. The victim thinks he's opening a bag of drugs, spills the vinegar in to the bicarbs of soda, and all of a sudden there is this huge amount of frothing and red dye coming out."
	"OK, perfect" said Abagail.
	Abagail got the red ink, whilst Albert stole some vinegar and bicarbs of soda from the kitchen. Sellotape and plastic bags were easily available. The boys put it together in the utility room. Then they put it all supermarket carrier bag, and Abbey put it in the cistern of the girls’ toilet. 
	

	Adam and Albert were no good at subterfuge, so Abagail got Cecilia in. They were in the boys' calefactory.
	"We need to tidy up before we go" said Abagail.
	"Why" said Cecilia.
	"The police found nothing." said Abagail, then she caught herself, and waited for a third year to pass by, "The police found nothing" she whispered, "but Mandy handed over five hundred pounds. It must still be there."
	"Abbey, watch what you're ..." said Cecilia.
	"What do you know?" said the boy.
	"None of your business" said Cecilia, "but if you must know we were discussing some money Mandy hopes to be sent."
	They left instantly, and went to the dorm.
	Pretty soon it was all about the boys' JC that drugs were in the first year dorm.
	Rupert got to hear about it. Now Rupert was most prudent. He wasn't going to take drugs lying about someone else‘s dorm, in case it was a trap. He suspected they had been left there deliberately. On the other hand the last thing he wanted was competing drugs coming back onto the market. So he made sure the prefects got to know about it.
	The prefects instantly went to the girls’ dorm, clearing away boys who had dawdled to sightsee.
	There was a bag of white powder inside.
	"Cocaine" said another prefect, "straight to Fr Abbot"
	"Maybe there's money inside as well" said the first.
	"Maybe" said the second, "this goes to Fr Abbot."

	They solemnly took the bag, and marched to Fr Abbot's office.
	"It could be talcum powder for all I know" said Fr Abbot, "We need Br Kieran."
	Br Kieran was summoned, and took the bag to the science lab.
	"I can't do a full analysis" he explained, "but I can check whether it is something ordinary. Let's open it first and see how much stuff is inside."
	Fr Abbot and the prefects gathered in a circle round Br Kieran as he opened the bag. It suddenly foamed explosively, spurting red ink everywhere. The prefects' clothes were ruined, but, worse still, Fr Abbot got ink all over his habit. Abagail had finally gone too far.
	"You think that's funny?" said Br Kieran.
	The prefects protested their innocence.

	"Not a bad last trick" said Albert, "time to go now, before Fr Abbot finds out who to blame".
	Indeed, term was winding down. A noticeboard was set up with the names of parents who had arrived at the village. They phoned through to the office then waited for their offspring coming off the ferry. Adam and Abagail, however, were going by train the next day.
	"It's a sort of anti-climax" said Adam, "Albert and James have left the dorm already. Ibrahim is staying. I thought we'd have a celebration, but it just fizzled out."
	The refectory was half empty for breakfast, which was the usual porridge.
	"That's the last time I'll eat this for a few weeks" said Abagail, "Funny, I'm getting almost partial to it."
	"And that was the last Mass" said Adam, "and Matins the last office."

	There was an announcement at breakfast. Could the person or persons responsible for the ink trick please report to Fr Abbot.
	"Sit tight" said Albert.
	"I'm not so sure" said Adam, "what if he finds out?"
	"We'll be gone" said Albert, "he'll have forgotten, by next term."
	"Knowing Fr Abbot he'll have a pretty good idea who did it" said Adam, "or he wouldn't risk asking for volunteers."
	"After all" said Abagail, "who else would have thought of mixing vinegar with bicarbs of soda?"
	Albert began to look uncomfortable.
	"We'd best own up" said Adam, "we'll all three go."
	"There's no point doing three punishment runs when one will do" said Abagail.
	"Let's draw lots for it" said Albert.
	After breakfast was over they took three drinking straws. Albert cut the bottom third off one with a pair of nail scissors, then rolled the straws around in his hands. Abagail drew the short straw.
	"Guess it's me".

	With some trepidation, Abagail walked up to the great oak-panelled door, and knocked.
	"I've come to own up to the ink trick, Sir" she said.
	"I see," said Fr Abbot, eying her deliberately, "Thank you, Abbey, for owning up so promptly. Did you act alone, or did others put you up to this?"
	"Just me, Sir" said Abagail.
	Fr Abbot knew it was a lie, and she knew that he knew. They looked at each other uncomfortably.
	"You've manged to ruin my second best habit." he said at last, "Why was it necessary to use indelible ink?"
	"Sorry, Sir" said Abagail.
	"You needn't pretend to be sorry when it is clear that you are not sorry at all" said Fr Abbot,
"You enjoyed  the disruption caused by your trick, and you think the punishment is worth it, don't you? The truth now." 
	"No sir, I mean yes sir" stammmered Abagail.
	"Abbey" said Fr Abbot, "I am going to hand you over to the prefects for punishment. 
Thank you again for coming to see me. You will go to the prefects' room and apologise for what you have done. Then you will accept any punishment that they impose. Go now."
	"Yes Sir"
	Abagail left. This was an unexpected and unwelcome turn of events. Not daring to disobey Fr Abbot, she went straight to the prefects' office. Sally, Gillian and Mark were there.
	"Fr Abbot sent me" she said, "I've got to apologise for playing the ink trick."
	"'Got to apologise'" said Sally, "What sort of apology is that?"
	"You realise my uniform is covered with ink, and it won't come out?" said Mark.
	"You've got all together too high an opinion of yourself, Abbey" said Gillian.
	Abagail looked at the floor.
	"She needs the strap" said Sally.
	"You can't" said Abagail, "it's been abolished".
	"You want a bet, Abbey?" said Sally.
	"Do the honours, Gillian" said Mark.
	Gillian went to a cupboard and withdrew a wicked-looking leather strap, obviously old.
	"You can't do this" protested Abagail.
	"We can and we will" said Sally.
	"Hold your hand out" ordered Gillian.
	Abagail held out a trembling hand.
	Gillian brought the strap down hard on her palm, and it hurt more than Abagail had believed possible. 
	"Five more to go" said Sally.
	Abagail received three lashes on each hand. The pain was too intense to cry, though she yelped a little. She stood for two or three minutes, dazed and overwhelmed by agony.
	"OK, you may go" said Sally, shortly.
	Flushed with anger and humiliation, Abagail made the short walk back to her own dormitory. Short Mary was away, but the others were there, still packing.
	"I got the strap" she announced, matter of factly.
	"No kidding?" blonde Mary was shocked, "I can see your hands, Abbey. They're all red."
	"That's illegal, that is" said Abagail, "Fr Abbot must have known what those prefects would do. I can get him into trouble. And them too.  I'll call Childline."
	"That's what I'd do too" said blonde Mary.
	"I'll ring them tomorrow" said Abagail.
	"Oh no you won't" said Cecilia, "Abbey, you are not to embarrass Fr Abbot."
	"Like I care" said Abagail, "I want my own back."
	"You've been wanting your own back ever since you arrived at this school. On the fifth years, on Rupert, on Mandy, on the prefects, now finally on Fr Abbot himself. That's the point, Abbey, at which it has got to stop", Cecilia was insistent, "You can't get your own back on Fr Abbot, Abbey, it's wrong and it will never work."
	"Just see me try" said Abagail.
	"Maybe what Fr Abbot did was wrong" said Cecilia, "or maybe you deserved to be punished in that way. I really don't know, Abbey. But you undermined his dignity, and then you messed him about. You can't expect to get off with a little run round the island."
	"Well Mandy dealt drugs and she got nothing." said Abagail. 
	"Cecilia's right" said Mandy, "Fr Abbot knows what he is doing. If he told the prefects to strap you, and I don't say that he did, you deserved it, Abbey."
	"No one deserves the strap" said blonde Mary, "It's because of the way you've been brought up that you think that, Mandy."
	"Don't you see?" said Cecilia, "It doesn't matter whether you deserved it or not. At some point the round of tit for tat has got to stop. Forgive, Abbey, say you forgive."
	"OK" said Abagail, "so I say I forgive him. But it's still a brutal school, and I still hate the prefects. And he doesn't know or care what I think. So what's the point?"
	"So you need to make friends again" said Cecilia, "send him flowers, or they're out of season I suppose. Chocolates."
	"Cecilia, you are crazy" said Abagail.
	"It would be the classy thing to do" said blonde Mary, "look, Abbey, it doesn't matter what you think on the inside. You can't afford to fall out with Fr Abbot. Chocolates and an apology is a good idea."
	"It does matter what you think on the inside" said Cecilia, "What do you think Fr Abbot is feeling?"
	Abagail had no answer to that one.
	"We'll all chip in" said blonde Mary, "I have some Belgian chocolates I was going to give to my mother. Have those. And we'll buy something from the shop for the prefects."
	"I'm as guilty as you are" said Cecilia.
	"We all enjoyed it" said Mandy, "let's all pay".
	"What matters is how it is wrapped as much as what's inside" said blonde Mary, "I'll see if we can scratch up some nice paper and ribbons."
	"And now for your letter of apology" said Cecilia.
	"I can't write" said Abagail, "my hands are too sore".
	Blonde Mary took out her notepaper and added a dash of perfume. She began to write in a perfect, neat script.
	"Dear Fr Abbot" she said, "Please accept this apology for the silly and thoughtless trick which I played on you yesterday."
	"I am truly sorry" said Cecilia.
	"He told me off for saying that" said Abagail.
	"Thank you for correcting my behaviour" said Mandy, "and I accept that my punishment was entirely appropriate."
	"I hope that you now forgive me" said Cecilia.
	"And I send you these chocolates," said blonde Mary, "because of the deep love you have shown to me"
	"You can't say that" said Cecilia.
	"And I send you these chocolates" said blonde Mary, "to make you feel better about me. Please accept them to show that I am sincere. Please also show this letter to the prefects and anyone else I may have offended. I remain, Sir, your humble and obedient pupil, Abbey."
	"That will do" said Cecilia, "not too long, and to the point."
	Blonde Mary finished writing it down and Abagail attached a signature.
	"We'll give him a couple of hours to cool down and for your hands to cool off, and then go for it, Abbey" said Cecilia.

	Two hours later Abagail arrived at Fr Abbot's office, carrying the letter and the presents.
	"Ah, Abbey" Fr Abbot smiled to see her.
	Abagail dropped a little curtsey and gave him the letter. Fr Abbot opened the letter and smiled again.
	"Why thank you, Abbey" he said.
	"I'm sorry, Sir" said Abagail.
	"Now what did I tell you?" said Fr Abbot.
	"No, I'm not sorry. I'm glad I did it. But you were right to do what you did and" she faltered.
	"And?"
	"I want your forgiveness anyway."
	"I think we can forgive a practical joke" said Fr Abbot.
	"Please Sir?" said Abagail.
	 "Yes?"
	"Does this go on my report?"
	"Abbey", said the headmaster,  "At St Tom's we do not keep disciplinary records. Every detention, every punishment run, once it's done, it's done. Of course we remember, but memories grow dim. See, there is not a single book in this office that keeps a record of anything done."
	"Even Mandy's drug dealing?"
	"Even Mandy's drug dealing. Nothing. I would have thought you would have realised this by now. Now go my child, back to London, in peace."
	Tears stung at Abagail's eyes as she left Fr Abbot's office for the last time that term.
	 
	Cecilia kissed Abagail goodbye, and went on the ferry to join her parents. Then it was the Marys' turn.
	"Don't let your mothers meet" said Abagail, "or you'll be at each others' throats all next term".
	Blonde Mary laughed.
	Then it was time for them to go.
	"Mandy, Ibrahim, we're sorry" said the twins.
	"Don't worry" said Mandy, "beats a childrens' home."
	They pulled their heavy trunks onto the ferry, and they were off. A stretch of clear blue water opened between them and the jetty and the monastery, and their eyes lingered on it for a while.
	"It looks so pretty from here" said Abagail.
	"And there you can see the rocks where the prefects marooned Albert" said Adam.
	"We got our revenge, though" said Abagail.
	
	Within a few minutes they were on the other side, and Albert tipped the boatman. It was about a half hours' wait for their train. Eventually it arrived, and Adam went to get some coffees.
	"I never did find out about Gregorias" said Adam.
	"You're obsessed with Gregorias" said Abagail, "He'll still be there, when we return."

	"I can use my phone at last" said Abagail, "let's phone Daddy."
	She dialled.
	"Daddy, is that you?"
	"Abagail?"
	"Yes Daddy, we're just leaving St Tom's for London, and we've had the most wonderful time."

	
